attack on titan japanese hepburn shingeki no kyojin is a japanese dark fantasy anime television series adapted from the manga of the same name by hajime isayama that premiered on april 2013. it currently airs on nhk general tv in japan aniplus asia in various asia pacific countries and crunchyroll funimation amazon prime and hulu in canada and the united story begins in a world where the remains of humanity live inside three concentric cities each protected by enormous walls against attacks by titans gigantic humanoid beings who devour humans without any apparent reason. it follows the adventures of eren jaeger his friends mikasa ackerman and armin arlert whose lives are changed forever after a colossal titan breaches the wall of their home town. vowing revenge and to reclaim the world from the titans eren and his friends join the scout regiment an elite group of soldiers who fight against titans.the first season of the attack on titan anime television series was produced by ig ports wit studio and directed by araki and covers the first arcs chapters 34 from the original manga by hajime isayama. attack on titan is set in a world where humanity lives inside cities surrounded by enormous walls due to the titans gigantic humanoid beings who devour humans. the story follows the adventures of eren jaeger his childhood friends mikasa ackerman and armin arlert whose lives are changed forever after a colossal titan breaches the wall of their home town. vowing revenge and to reclaim the world from the titans eren and his friends join the scout regiment an elite group of soldiers who fight season was broadcast on mbs tv from april to september 2013 and later aired on tokyo mx fbs tos htb tv aichi and both funimation and crunchyroll have streamed the series with subtitles on their respective websites. funimation has also licensed the anime for home video release in episode of funimations english dubbed version premiered at anime boston with other episodes put on funimations subscription services. on television in the united states the dub of the series was broadcast weekly on adult swims toonami programming block starting on may 2014 at est.the score is composed by hiroyuki sawano. the opening theme song for the seasons first episodes is feuerroter pfeil und bogen guren no yumiya lit. crimson bow and arrow by linked horizon and the ending theme is utsukushiki zankoku na sekai lit. a beautiful cruel world by hikasa. for the rest of the season the opening theme is die der freiheit jiyū no tsubasa lit. the wings of freedom also by linked horizon and the ending theme is great escape by cinema staff. the opening themes were collected on linked horizons single e no shingeki which sold over copies in its first week of sales.attack on titan junior high japanese hepburn shingeki kyojin lit. attack titan junior high is a japanese comedy manga series written and illustrated by saki nakagawa and published in bessatsu magazine from april to july the series is a parody of hajime isayamas popular manga series attack on titan shingeki no manga has been adapted into an anime television series which began airing in october a rebroadcast was aired during januarythe third season of the attack on titan anime television series was produced by ig ports wit studio chief directed by araki and directed by masashi koizuka and covers the uprising chapters and return to shiganshina chapters arcs from the original manga by hajime isayama. the seasons first episodes were broadcast on nhk general tv from july to october 2018 before going into hiatus until april 2019. adult swim began airing funimations english dub on august 2018.the season follows eren and his fellow soldiers from the survey corps who are still fighting for their survival against the terrifying titans. however threats arise not only from the titans beyond the walls but from the humans within them as well. after being rescued from the colossal and armored titans all seems well for the soldiers until the government suddenly demands custody of eren and historia. sought after by the government levi and his new squad must evade their adversaries in hopes of keeping eren and historia the second half of the season the survey corps led by erwin embark on a mission to retake wall maria returning to the tattered shiganshina district that was once erens home. the survey corps strive to carve a path towards victory as eren vows to take back everything that was once score is composed by hiroyuki sawano. the opening theme for the seasons first episodes is red swan by yoshiki featuring hyde and the ending theme is akatsuki no requiem akatsuki no chinkonka lit. daybreak requiem by linked horizon. the opening theme for the second part of third season is shoukei to shikabane no michi lit. the path of longing and corpses performed by linked horizon and the second ending theme is name of love performed by cinema staff.attack on titan japanese hepburn shingeki no kyojin lit. the attack titan is a japanese manga series written and illustrated by hajime isayama. it is set in a world where humanity lives inside cities surrounded by enormous walls that protect them from gigantic man eating humanoids referred to as titans the story follows eren yeager who vows to exterminate the titans after a titan brings about the destruction of his hometown and the death of his mother. attack on titan has been serialized in kodanshas monthly bessatsu magazine since september and collected into tankōbon volumes as of anime television series adapting the manga was produced by wit studio seasons and mappa season a episode first season was broadcast from april to september followed by a episode second season broadcast from april to june a episode third season was broadcast in two parts with the first episodes airing from july to october and the last episodes airing from april to july a fourth and final season premiered in december on titan has become a critical and commercial success. as of the manga has over tankōbon copies in print worldwide making it one of the best selling manga series of all time. it has won several awards including the kodansha manga award the attilio micheluzzi award and harvey award.attack on titan japanese hepburn shingeki no kyojin is a japanese dark fantasy anime television series adapted from the manga of the same name by hajime isayama. it is set in a world where humanity lives inside cities surrounded by enormous walls due to the titans gigantic humanoid beings who devour humans seemingly without reason. the story follows the adventures of eren yeager his friends mikasa ackerman and armin arlert whose lives are changed forever after a colossal titan breaches the wall of their home town. vowing revenge and to reclaim the world from the titans eren and his friends join the scout regiment an elite group of soldiers who fight fourth and final season premiered on december 2020. as of 2021 episodes of attack on titan have aired currently in its fourth season.the attack on titan manga and anime series feature an extensive cast of fictional characters created by hajime isayama. the story is set in a world where humanity lives in cities surrounded by enormous walls a defense against the titans gigantic humanoids that eat humans seemingly without reason. the story initially centers on eren yeager with his childhood friends mikasa ackerman and armin arlert who join the military to fight the titans after their home town is invaded and erens mother is eaten. they are part of the training corps whose graduates assume different positions in the military including the garrison regiment the survey corps and the military police brigade. it is later revealed that the area where the walls are located is called paradis paradi and that it is the last territory of eldia erudia. there are other nations outside the walls namely marley māre which has infiltrated paradis with its titan shifters.the fourth and final season of the attack on titan anime television series subtitled attack on titan the final season is produced by mappa chief directed by jun shishido and directed by hayashi replacing araki and masashi koizuka respectively. scriptwriter hiroshi seko took over the series composition from yasuko kobayashi and tomohiro kishi replaced asano as character designer due to the series switching production studios. the season covers the marley chapters and war for paradis chapters 116 arcs from the original manga by hajime season follows gabi braun and falco grice young eldian warrior candidates seeking to inherit reiners armored titan four years after the failed mission to claim the founding titan. as marleys dominance over competing nations begins to weaken due to the development anti titan weaponry they plan to invade paradis to develop their military using the resources on the island and also recover the founding titan. with tensions rapidly heating up and the survey corps on the marley shoreline gabi falco reiner and other titans go to war with the paradis soldiers as eren yeager reveals his new plan of attack to marley annihilation. as war heats up and both sides take a heavy death toll both the marleyan warriors and the survey corps must question the best approach to claiming victory over the other side erens comrades begin to realize that he has begun to walk down a questionable path while gabi and falco must combat their internal tensions over the supposed devils of september 2020 crunchyroll and funimation announced that the final season would be streaming later this year. the season premiered on nhk general tv on december 2020 at jst. in the united states adult swims toonami programming block began airing funimations english dub on january 2021 at a.m. et. currently episodes have been listed for the home releases for the season.the score is directed by masafumi mima and composed by hiroyuki sawano and kohta yamamoto. the opening theme song is my war boku no performed by shinsei kamattechan and the ending theme song is shock shōgeki performed by andō.attack on titan shingeki no kyojin is a japanese post apocalyptic action film based on the manga of the same name by hajime isayama. the film is directed by shinji higuchi written by watanabe and tomohiro machiyama and stars haruma miura hiroki hasegawa kiko mizuhara kanata takahiro miura nanami sakuraba satoru matsuo shu watanabe ayame misaki rina takeda satomi ishihara pierre taki and jun kunimura. in attack on titan eren yeager his childhood friends mikasa ackerman and armin arlert join the survey corps a military corporation to fight gigantic humanoids called the titans after their hometown is attacked by a colossal titan. the film is split into two parts with the first part released in japan on august and the second part subtitled end of the world released on september that year.