in business and engineering new product development npd covers the complete process of bringing a new product to market renewing an existing product or introducing a product in a new market. a central aspect of npd is product design along with various business considerations. new product development is described broadly as the transformation of a market opportunity into a product available for sale. the products developed by an organisation provide the means for it to generate income. for many technology intensive firms their approach is based on exploiting technological innovation in a rapidly changing market. the product can be tangible something physical which one can touch or intangible like a service experience or belief though sometimes services and other processes are distinguished from products. npd requires an understanding of customer needs and wants the competitive environment and the nature of the time and quality are the main variables that drive customer needs. aiming at these three variables innovative companies develop continuous practices and strategies to better satisfy customer requirements and to increase their own market share by a regular development of new products. there are many uncertainties and challenges which companies must face throughout the process. the use of best practices and the elimination of barriers to communication are the main concerns for the management of the npd .front end may refer tofront end loading fel also referred to as pre project planning ppp front end engineering design feed feasibility analysis conceptual planning programmingschematic design and early project planning is the process for conceptual development of projects in processing industries such as upstream oil and gas petrochemical natural gas refining extractive metallurgy waste to energy and pharmaceuticals. this involves developing sufficient strategic information with which owners can address risk and make decisions to commit resources in order to maximize the potential for success.front end loading includes robust planning and design early in a projects lifecycle i.e. the front end of a project at a time when the ability to influence changes in design is relatively high and the cost to make those changes is relatively low. it typically applies to industries with highly capital intensive long lifecycle projects i.e. hundreds of millions or billions of dollars over several years before any revenue is produced. though it often adds a small amount of time and cost to the early portion of a project these costs are minor compared to the alternative of the costs and effort required to make changes at a later stage in the also typically uses a stage gate process whereby a project must pass through formal gates at well defined milestones within the projects lifecycle before receiving funding to proceed to the next stage of work. the quality of front end planning can be improved through the use of pdri project definition rating index as a part of the stage gate process.front end loading is usually followed by detailed design or detailed engineering.front end web development is the practice of converting data to a graphical interface through the use of html css and javascript so that users can view and interact with that data.in software engineering the terms front end and back end refer to the separation of concerns between the presentation layer front end and the data access layer back end of a piece of software or the physical infrastructure or hardware. in the model the client is usually considered the front end and the server is usually considered the back end even when some presentation work is actually done on the server itself.web development is the work involved in developing a web site for the internet world wide web or an intranet a private network. web development can range from developing a simple single static page of plain text to complex web based internet applications web apps electronic businesses and social network services. a more comprehensive list of tasks to which web development commonly refers may include web engineering web design web content development client liaison client sideserver side scripting web server and network security configuration and e commerce development. among web professionals web development usually refers to the main non design aspects of building web sites writing markup and coding. web development may use content management systems cms to make content changes easier and available with basic technical larger organizations and businesses web development teams can consist of hundreds of people web developers and follow standard methods like agile methodologies while developing web sites. smaller organizations may only require a single permanent or contracting developer or secondary assignment to related job positions such as a graphic designer or information systems technician. web development may be a collaborative effort between departments rather than the domain of a designated department. there are three kinds of web developer specialization front end developer back end developer and full stack developer. front end developers are responsible for behavior and visuals that run in the user browser while back end developers deal with the servers.front end innovation is the starting point where opportunities are identified and concepts are developed prior to entering the formal product development process. innovation on the front end is where exciting breakthroughs are created through a process that allows for creativity and value creation in a systematic manner different from the formal development the front end idea genesis opportunity validation and concept development are dynamic and consists of adaptive interactions between involved participants with varied skills. they create evaluate analyze and iterate many alternatives and external technologies into potential breakthrough opportunities. the final result is a product concept including potential external technology partners conceptual business model preliminary product specifications and the formation of a corporate sponsor team a startup action plan and gono go milestones for insertion in to the formal development less expensive than the later product development phases front end innovation is vital this is the point where decisions to invest resources are fundamentally made.in computing a compiler is a computer program that translates computer code written in one programming language the source language into another language the target language. the name compiler is primarily used for programs that translate source code from a high level programming language to a lower level language e.g. assembly language object code or machine code to create an executable program.there are many different types of compilers which produce output in different useful forms. a compiler that can run on a computer whose cpu or operating system is different from the one on which the code it produces will run is called a cross compiler. a bootstrap compiler is written in the language that it intends to compile. a program that translates from a low level language to a higher level one is a decompiler. a program that translates between high level languages is usually called a source to source compiler or transcompiler. a language rewriter is usually a program that translates the form of expressions without a change of language. the term compiler compiler refers to tools used to create parsers that perform syntax compiler is likely to perform many or all of the following operations preprocessing lexical analysis parsing semantic analysis syntax directed translation conversion of input programs to an intermediate representation code optimization and code generation. compilers implement these operations in phases that promote efficient design and correct transformations of source input to target output. program faults caused by incorrect compiler behavior can be very difficult to track down and work around therefore compiler implementers invest significant effort to ensure compiler correctness.compilers are not the only language processor used to transform source programs. an interpreter is computer software that transforms and then executes the indicated operations. the translation process influences the design of computer languages which leads to a preference of compilation or interpretation. in practice an interpreter can be implemented for compiled languages and compilers can be implemented for interpreted languages.bootstrap is a free and open source css framework directed at responsive mobile first front end web development. it contains css and optionally javascript based design templates for typography forms buttons navigation and other interface is among the most starred projects on github with more than stars behind freecodecamp almost stars and marginally behind vue.js framework.mobile app development is the act or process by which a mobile app is developed for mobile devices such as personal digital assistants enterprise digital assistants or mobile phones. these applications can be pre installed on phones during manufacturing platforms or delivered as web applications using server side or client side processing e.g. javascript to provide an application like experience within a web browser. application software developers also must consider a long array of screen sizes hardware specifications and configurations because of intense competition in mobile software and changes within each of the platforms. mobile app development has been steadily growing in revenues and jobs created. a analyst report estimates there are direct app economy jobs within the eu then members including the uk percent of which are mobile app developers.as part of the development process mobile user interface ui design is also essential in the creation of mobile apps. mobile ui considers constraints contexts screen input and mobility as outlines for design. the user is often the focus of interaction with their device and the interface entails components of both hardware and software. user input allows for the users to manipulate a system and devices output allows the system to indicate the effects of the users manipulation. mobile ui design constraints include limited attention and form factors such as a mobile devices screen size for a users hands. mobile ui contexts signal cues from user activity such as location and scheduling that can be shown from user interactions within a mobile app. overall mobile ui designs goal is mainly for an understandable user friendly interface. the ui of mobile apps should consider users limited attention minimize keystrokes and be task oriented with a minimum set of functions. this functionality is supported by mobile enterprise application platforms or integrated development environments uis or front ends rely on mobile back ends to support access to enterprise systems. the mobile back end facilitates data routing security authentication authorization working off line and service orchestration. this functionality is supported by a mix of middleware components including mobile app server mobile backend as a service mbaas and service oriented architecture soa app development is becoming more critical for many businesses with more than billion people worldwide using smartphones more than billion using tablets as of users on average spend percent of their mobile time in apps and there are more than million apps downloads from various app stores.