media art history is an interdisciplinary field of research that explores the current developments as well as the history and genealogy of new media art digital art and electronic art. on the one hand media art histories addresses the contemporary interplay of art technology and science. on the other it aims to reveal the historical relationships and aspects of the aby warburg in new media art by means of a historical comparative approach. this strand of research encompasses questions of the history of media and perception of so called archetypes as well as those of iconography and the history of ideas. moreover one of the main agendas of media art histories is to point out the role of digital technologies for contemporary post industrial societies and to counteract the marginalization of according art practices and art objects technology has fundamentally changed the way art is made. over the last forty years media art has become a significant part of our networked information society. although there are well attended international festivals collaborative research projects exhibitions and database documentation resources media art research is still marginal in universities museums and archives. it remains largely under resourced in our core cultural term new media art itself is of great importance to the field. new media art is an umbrella term that encompasses art forms that are produced modified and transmitted by means of digital technologies or in a broader sense make use of and emerging technologies that originate from a scientific military or industrial context. the majority of authors that try to the aesthetic object of new media art emphasize aspects of interactivity processuality multimedia and real time. the focus of new media art lies in the cultural political and social implications as well as the aesthetic possibilities more or less its specificity’ of digital media. consequently scholars recognize the function of media technologies in new media art not only as a of meaning but instead as a means that fundamentally shapes the very meaning of the artwork the field of new media art is increasingly influenced by new technologies that surmount a traditional understanding of art media. this becomes apparent in regards to technologies that originate from the field of biotechnology and life science and that are employed in artistic practices such as bio art genetic art and transgenic art. consequently the term new media art does not imply a steady of art production. instead it is a field that emphasizes new technologies in order to establish an explicit difference with traditional art media and genres. the list of genres that are commonly subsumed under the label of new media art illustrates its broad scope and includes among others virtual art. software art internet art game art glitch art telematic art bio art genetic art interactive art computer animation and graphics and hacktivism and tactical media. these latter two in particular have a strong focus on the interplay of art and political activism.arts media is the material and tools used by an artist composer or designer to create a work of art for example pen and ink where the pen is the tool and the ink is the material. here is a list of types of art and the media used within those types.new media art refers to artworks created with new media technologies including digital art computer graphics computer animation virtual art internet art interactive art sound art video games computer robotics printing cyborg art and art as biotechnology. the term differentiates itself by its resulting cultural objects and social events which can be seen in opposition to those deriving from old visual arts i.e. traditional painting sculpture etc.. this concern with medium is a key feature of much contemporary art and many art schools and major universities now offer majors in new genres or new media and a growing number of graduate programs have emerged internationally. new media art often involves interaction between artist and observer or between observers and the artwork which responds to them. yet as several theorists and curators have noted such forms of interaction social exchange participation and transformation do not distinguish new media art but rather serve as a common ground that has parallels in other strands of contemporary art practice. such insights emphasize the forms of cultural practice that arise concurrently with emerging technological platforms and question the focus on technological media per media concerns are often derived from the telecommunications mass media and digital electronic modes of delivering the artworks involve with practices ranging from conceptual to virtual art performance to installation.the conservation and restoration of new media art is the study and practice of techniques for sustaining new media art created using from materials such as digital biological performative and other variable increased use of multi media digital and internet media since the has called into question the conventional strategies by which society preserves cares for and redisplays cultural artifacts created with or on ephemera media formats. while the most obvious vulnerability of new media art is rapid technological obsolescence the study of its other aspects that defy traditional conservation including hybrid contextual or live qualities has provoked investigation into new strategies for preserving conceptual art performance installation art video art and even to a limited extent painting and sculpture.new media art journals are online journals designed to cover art in a new media format.artmedia was a social sculpture project in the form of series of socio political public art events that took place in in albuquerque and santa fe new mexico. this groundbreaking artist forum featured artworks presented to the public through the mass media in a series of artist designed billboards television radio and print media and in museum exhibitions a lecture series and performance art series. through this extended format the artwork and ideas of contemporary artists were made accessible to a large public audience outside of the traditional art audience.new media are forms of media that are computational and rely on computers for redistribution. some examples of new media are computer animations computer games human computer interfaces interactive computer installations websites and virtual worlds.new media are often contrasted to old media such as television radio and print media although scholars in communication and media studies have criticized inflexible distinctions based on oldness and novelty. new media does not include analog broadcast television programs feature films magazines or unless they contain technologies that enable digital generative or interactive processes.wikipedia an online encyclopedia is an example of new media combining internet accessible digital text images and video with web links creative participation of contributors interactive feedback of users and formation of a participant community of editors and donors for the benefit of non community readers. social media or social networking services such as facebook and twitter are additional examples of new media in which most users are also participants.digital art is an artistic work or practice that uses digital technology as part of the creative or presentation process. since the various names have been used to describe the process including computer art and multimedia art. digital art is itself placed under the larger umbrella term new media art.after some initial resistance the impact of digital technology has transformed activities such as painting drawing sculpture and musicsound art while new forms such as net art digital installation art and virtual reality have become recognized artistic practices. more generally the term digital artist is used to describe an artist who makes use of digital technologies in the production of art. in an expanded sense digital art is contemporary art that uses the methods of mass production or digital media. the techniques of digital art are used extensively by the mainstream media in advertisements and by film makers to produce visual effects. desktop publishing has had a huge impact on the publishing world although that is more related to graphic design. both digital and traditional artists use many sources of electronic information and programs to create their work. given the parallels between visual and musical arts it is possible that general acceptance of the value of digital visual art will progress in much the same way as the increased acceptance of electronically produced music over the last three decades.digital art can be purely computer generated such as fractals and algorithmic art or taken from other sources such as a scanned photograph or an image drawn using vector graphics software using a mouse or graphics tablet. though technically the term may be applied to art done using other media or processes and merely scanned in it is usually reserved for art that has been non trivially modified by a computing process such as a computer program microcontroller or any electronic system capable of interpreting an input to create an output digitized text data and raw audio and video recordings are not usually considered digital art in themselves but can be part of the larger project of computer art and information art. artworks are considered digital painting when created in similar fashion to non digital paintings but using software on a computer platform and digitally outputting the resulting image as painted on canvas.andy warhol created digital art using a commodore amiga where the computer was publicly introduced at the lincoln center new york in july an image of debbie harry was captured in monochrome from a video camera and digitized into a graphics program called propaint. warhol manipulated the image adding colour by using flood fills.amidst varied opinions on the pros and cons of digital technology on the arts there seems to be a strong consensus within the digital art community that it has created a vast expansion of the creative sphere i.e. that it has greatly broadened the creative opportunities available to professional and non professional artists alike.whilst and digital art is beneficial as it allows us to preserve history that would otherwise have been destroyed by natural disasters war and climate change there is the issue of who should own these scans i.e. who should own the digital copyrights. for example should these images belong in a museum or should they be uploaded onto google. many question the intentions of google is it a backdrop to allow widespead accessibility or rather at its core advertisements and driving traffic. overall it seems many would prefer the scans to be owned by the countries and people where these sites are located.an art blog is a common type of blog that comments on art. more recently as with other types of blogs some art blogs have taken on web social networking features. art blogs that adopt this sort of change can develop to become a source of information on art events listings and maps a way to share information and images or virtual meeting blogs entries cover different topics from art critiques and commentary to insider art world gossip auction results art news personal essays portfolios interviews artists journals art marketing advice and artist biographies. some artists use art blogs as a form of new media art blogs may also serve as a forum to reach out to anybody interested in art be it painting sculpture print making creative photography video art conceptual art or new media. in this way they may be visited not only for the practitioners of different forms of art but also collectors connoisseurs and critics.the following is a list of festivals dedicated to new media art.