lgbt or glbt is an initialism that stands for lesbian gay bisexual and transgender. in use since the the term is an adaptation of the initialism lgb which began to replace the term gay in reference to the broader lgbt community beginning in the mid to late the initialism as well as some of its common variants functions as an umbrella term for sexuality and gender identity.it may refer to anyone who is non heterosexual or non cisgender instead of exclusively to people who are lesbian gay bisexual or transgender. to recognize this inclusion a popular variant lgbtq adds the letter q for those who identify as queer or are questioning their sexual identity. those who add intersex people to lgbt groups or organizing may use the extended initialism lgbti. these two initialisms are sometimes combined to form the terms lgbtiq or to encompass spectrums of sexuality and gender. other less common variants also exist such as with the a standing for asexual or aromantic. longer acronyms with some being over twice as long as lgbt have prompted criticism for their length and the implication that the acronym refers to a single community is also controversial.in the same way that the wider lgbt communities worldwide have adopted specific flags as well as the rainbow flag the transgender community organizations and individuals around the world are widely represented by the light blue pink and white flag designed by monica helms but there are several flags used and endorsed by the varying transgender individuals organizations and communities. there have even been and continue to be alternatives to these flags suggested. the varying flags have been and continue to be used to represent transgender pride diversity rights andor remembrance by transgender individuals their organizations their communities and their allies.transgender pregnancy is the incubation of one or more embryos or fetuses by transgender people.sexuality in transgender individuals encompasses all the issues of sexuality of other groups including establishing a sexual identity learning to deal with ones sexual needs and finding a partner but may be complicated by issues of gender dysphoria side effects of surgery physiological and emotional effects of hormone replacement therapy psychological aspects of expressing sexuality after medical transition or social aspects of expressing their gender.a trans man is a man who was assigned female at birth. the label of transgender man is not always interchangeable with that of transsexual man although the two labels are often used in this way. transgender is an umbrella term that includes different types of gender variant people including transsexual people. many trans men choose to undergo surgical or hormonal transition or both see sex reassignment therapy to alter their appearance in a way that aligns with their gender identity or alleviates gender dysphoria.although the literature indicates that most trans men identify as heterosexual meaning they are sexually attracted to women trans men like cisgender men can have any sexual orientation or sexual identity such as homosexual gay bisexual pansexual or asexual and some trans men might consider conventional sexual orientation labels inadequate or inapplicable to them in which case they may elect to use labels like queer.a person may be considered to be a transgender person if their gender identity is inconsistent or not culturally associated with the sex they were assigned at birth and consequently also with the gender role and social status that is typically associated with that sex. they may have or may intend to establish a new gender status that accords with their gender identity. transsexual is generally considered a subset of transgender but some transsexual people reject being labelled transgender.globally most legal jurisdictions recognize the two traditional gender identities and social roles man and woman but tend to exclude any other gender identities and expressions. however there are some countries which recognize by law a third gender. there is now a greater understanding of the breadth of variation outside the typical categories of man and woman and many self descriptions are now entering the literature including pangender genderqueer polygender and agender. medically and socially the term transsexualism is being replaced with gender incongruence or gender dysphoria and terms such as transgender people trans men and trans women are replacing the category of transsexual raises many legal issues and aspects of being transgender. most of these issues are generally considered a part of family law especially the issues of marriage and the question of a transgender person benefiting from a partners insurance or social degree of legal recognition provided to transgender people varies widely throughout the world. many countries now legally recognise sex reassignments by permitting a change of legal gender on an individuals birth certificate. many transsexual people have permanent surgery to change their body sexual reassignment surgery srs or semi permanently change their body by hormonal means hormone replacement therapy hrt. in many countries some of these modifications are required for legal recognition. in a few the legal aspects are directly tied to health care i.e. the same bodies or doctors decide whether a person can move forward in their treatment and the subsequent processes automatically incorporate both some jurisdictions transgender people who are considered non transsexual can benefit from the legal recognition given to transsexual people. in some countries an explicit medical diagnosis of transsexualism is at least formally necessary. in others a diagnosis of gender dysphoria or simply the fact that one has established a non conforming gender role can be sufficient for some or all of the legal recognition available. the dsm recognizes gender dysphoria as an official diagnosis.transgender people have a gender identity or gender expression that differs from the sex that they were assigned at birth. some transgender people who desire medical assistance to transition from one sex to another identify as transsexual. transgender often shortened as trans is also an umbrella term in addition to including people whose gender identity is the opposite of their assigned sex trans men and trans women it may include people who are not exclusively masculine or feminine people who are non binary or genderqueer including bigender pangender genderfluid or agender. other definitions of transgender also include people who belong to a third gender or else conceptualize transgender people as a third gender. the term transgender may be defined very broadly to include cross dressers.being transgender is distinct from sexual orientation. transgender people may identify as heterosexual homosexual bisexual asexual or may decline to label their sexual orientation. the term transgender is also distinguished from intersex a term that describes people born with physical sex characteristics that do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies. the opposite of transgender is cisgender which describes persons whose gender identity or expression matches their assigned sex.the degree to which individuals feel genuine authentic and comfortable within their external appearance and accept their genuine identity has been called transgender congruence. many transgender people experience gender dysphoria and some seek medical treatments such as hormone replacement therapy sex reassignment surgery or psychotherapy. not all transgender people desire these treatments and some cannot undergo them for financial or medical reasons.many transgender people face discrimination in the workplace and in accessing public accommodations and healthcare. in many places they are not legally protected from discrimination.transgender history in the broadest sense includes examples of gender variance and gender nonconformity in cultures worldwide since ancient times. as this history is prior to the coining of the modern term transgender opinions of how to categorize these people and identities can vary. this history also begins prior to the mid twentieth century usage of gender in american psychology and associated conceptual apparatus including the notions of gender identity and gender role.sumerian and akkadian texts from years ago document transgender or transvestite priests known as gala and by other names. a grave of a possibly transgender person in europe has been identified from years ago and likely depictions occur in art around the mediterranean from to years ago. in ancient greece phrygia and rome there were galli priests that some scholars believe to have been trans women and records of women who passed as men in order to vote fight or study during times when these things were forbidden for women. roman emperor elagabalus d. preferred to be called a lady rather than a lord sought sex reassignment surgery and has been seen as an early trans figure. hijras on the indian subcontinent and kathoeys in thailand have formed trans feminine third gender social and spiritual communities since ancient times with their presence documented for thousands of years in texts which also mention trans male figures. religious iconography in these cultures includes depictions of androgynous figures with bodies that are male on one side and female on the other like ardhanarishvara. today at least half a million hijras live in india and another half million in bangladesh legally recognized as a third gender and many trans people are accepted in thailand. in arabia khanith today like earlier mukhannathun fulfill a third gender role attested since the in africa many societies have traditional roles for trans women and trans men some of which survive in the modern era amid recent widespread hostility. in the americas prior to european colonization as well as in some contemporary north american indigenous cultures there are social and ceremonial roles for third gender people or those whose gender expression transforms such as the navajo or the zuni the middle ages accounts around europe document trans men while kalonymus ben kalonymuss lament for being born a man instead of a woman has been seen as an early account of gender dysphoria. eleanor rykener a male bodied briton arrested in while living and doing sex work as a woman has been seen as a trans woman. in the balkans since the female assigned people have transitioned to live as men called sworn virgins. in japan accounts of trans people go back to the edo period. in colonial america thomasine hall in the adopted clothes and roles of both men and women while in the genderless public universal friend arose. in the some people used military service to begin new lives as men like albert cashier and james barry or otherwise transitioned like joseph lobdell trans women like frances thompson also transitioned. in trans autobiographer jennie june and others organized the cercle hermaphroditos in the musician billy tipton lived as a man while lucy hicks anderson was supported by her parents and community in being a woman. karl m. baer in alan l. hart mark weston and michael dillon had early female to male sex reassignment surgeries while in and dora richter and lili elbe had early male to female reassignment surgeries including for elbe an ovary and uterus transplant. baer richter and elbe were aided by magnus hirschfeld whose pioneering work at the institut sexualwissenschaft for trans medicine and rights the nazis destroyed in 1952 american trans woman christine jorgensens public transition brought widespread awareness to reassignment surgery. the grassroots fight for trans rights became more publicly visible with trans and gay people fighting back against police in the cooper donuts riot the comptons cafeteria riot and the multi day stonewall riots of in lou sullivan began what became ftm international while some feminists began to feud over excluding or including trans women. in iran the government started partially funding sex reassignment and now carries out more surgeries than anywhere besides thailand. in indonesia there are millions of trans third gender waria and the bugis of sulawesi recognize five genders. in oceania trans third gender roles like the akavaine faafafine and fakaleiti exist among the cook island maori samoans and tongans. in the and the transgender day of remembrance was started and trans marches around the time of pride became more common trans people like georgina beyer in new zealand shabnam mausi india tomoya hosoda japan and danica roem us were elected to some public offices and legislative and court actions began recognizing trans peoples rights in some countries around the world especially in the west india and southern africa. at the same time other countries especially in the rest of africa central asia and arabia are hostile and abridge trans peoples rights.a trans woman is a woman who was assigned male at birth. trans women may experience gender dysphoria and may transition this process commonly includes hormone replacement therapy and sometimes sex reassignment surgery which can bring relief and resolve feelings of gender dysphoria. trans women may be heterosexual bisexual homosexual asexual or identify with other terms such as term transgender woman is not always interchangeable with transsexual woman although the terms are often used interchangeably. transgender is an umbrella term that includes different types of gender variant people including transsexual people. trans women face significant discrimination in many areas of life transmisogyny a subset of transphobia including in employment and access to housing and face physical and sexual violence and hate crimes including from partners in the united states discrimination is particularly severe towards trans women who are members of a racial minority who often face the intersection of transphobia and racism.the participation of transgender and transsexual people in competitive sports is a controversial issue particularly where athletes who have gone through male puberty are notably successful in womens sport or represent a significant increased injury risk to female by birth to trans women competing in womens sports generally focuses on physiological attributes such as height and weight or performance metrics such as speed and strength and whether sustained testosterone suppression can adequately reduce any natural advantages of male body characteristics within a given womens regulations requiring that trans athletes compete against athletes of the same assigned sex at birth and requiring sex verification testing have been used. proponents of such regulations regard them as necessary to ensure fair competition while opponents regard them as discriminatory.