graphic design is the art profession and academic discipline whose activity consists in projecting visual communications intended to transmit specific messages to social groups with specific objectives. therefore it is an interdisciplinary branch of design whose foundations and objectives revolve around the definition of problems and the determination of objectives for decision making through creativity innovation and lateral thinking along with digital tools transforming them for proper interpretation. this activity helps in the optimization of graphic communications see also communication design. it is also known as visual communication design visual design or editorial role of the graphic designer in the communication process is that of encoder or interpreter of the message. they work on the interpretation ordering and presentation of visual messages. the design work always starts from a demand a demand that ends up being established linguistically either orally or in writing that is that graphic design transforms a linguistic message into a graphic manifestation.graphic design has as a field of application different areas of knowledge focused on any visual communication system. for example it can be applied in advertising strategies or it can also be applied in the aviation world. in this sense in some countries graphic design is related as only associated with the production of sketches and drawings this is incorrect since visual communication is a small part of a huge range of types and classes where it can be the rapid and massive growth in information sharing the demand for experienced designers is greater than ever particularly because of the development of new technologies and the need to pay attention to human factors beyond the competence of the engineers who develop them.a design is a plan or specification for the construction of an object or system or for the implementation of an activity or process or the result of that plan or specification in the form of a prototype product or process. the verb to design expresses the process of developing a design. in some cases the direct construction of an object without an explicit prior plan such as in craftwork some engineering coding and graphic design may also be considered to be a design activity. the design usually has to satisfy certain goals and constraints may take into account aesthetic functional economic or socio political considerations and is expected to interact with a certain environment. major examples of designs include architectural blueprints engineering drawings business processes circuit diagrams and sewing patterns.the person who produces a design is called a designer which is a term generally used for people who work professionally in one of the various design areas usually specifying which area is being dealt with such as a fashion designer product designer web designer or interior designer but also others such as architects and engineers. a designers sequence of activities is called a design process possibly using design methods. the process of creating a design can be brief a quick sketch or lengthy and complicated involving considerable research negotiation reflection modeling interactive adjustment and re design.intelligent design id is a pseudoscientific argument for the existence of god presented by its proponents as an evidence based scientific theory about lifes origins. proponents claim that certain features of the universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent cause not an undirected process such as natural selection. id is a form of creationism that lacks empirical support and offers no testable or tenable hypotheses and is therefore not science. the leading proponents of id are associated with the discovery institute a christian politically conservative think tank based in the united states.although the phrase intelligent design had featured previously in theological discussions of the argument from design its first publication in its present use as an alternative term for creationism was in of pandas and people a creationist textbook intended for high school biology classes. the term was substituted into drafts of the book directly replacing references to creation science and creationism after the supreme courts edwards v. aguillard decision barred the teaching of creation science in public schools on constitutional grounds. from the mid the intelligent design movement idm supported by the discovery institute advocated inclusion of intelligent design in public school biology curricula. this led to the kitzmiller v. dover area school district trial which found that intelligent design was not science that it cannot uncouple itself from its creationist and thus religious antecedents and that the public school districts promotion of it therefore violated the establishment clause of the first amendment to the united states constitution.id presents two main arguments against evolutionary explanations irreducible complexity and specified complexity asserting that certain biological and informational features of living things are too complex to be the result of natural selection. detailed scientific examination has rebutted several examples for which evolutionary explanations are claimed to be seeks to challenge the methodological naturalism inherent in modern science though proponents concede that they have yet to produce a scientific theory. as a positive argument against evolution id proposes an analogy between natural systems and human artifacts a version of the theological argument from design for the existence of god. id proponents then conclude by analogy that the complex features as defined by id are evidence of design. critics of id find a false dichotomy in the premise that evidence against evolution constitutes evidence for design.web design encompasses many different skills and disciplines in the production and maintenance of websites. the different areas of web design include web graphic design user interface design ui design authoring including standardised code and proprietary software user experience design ux design and search engine optimization. often many individuals will work in teams covering different aspects of the design process although some designers will cover them all. the term web design is normally used to describe the design process relating to the front end client side design of a website including writing markup. web design partially overlaps web engineering in the broader scope of web development. web designers are expected to have an awareness of usability and if their role involves creating markup then they are also expected to be up to date with web accessibility guidelines.interior design is the art and science of enhancing the interior of a building to achieve a healthier and more aesthetically pleasing environment for the people using the space. an interior designer is someone who plans researches coordinates and manages such enhancement projects. interior design is a multifaceted profession that includes conceptual development space planning site inspections programming research communicating with the stakeholders of a project construction management and execution of the design.a design specification is a detailed document providing a list of points regarding a product or process. for example the design specification could include required dimensions environmental factors ergonomic factors aesthetic factors maintenance that will be needed etc. it may also give specific examples of how the design should be executed helping others work properly a guideline for what the person should do.automotive design is the process of developing the appearance and to some extent the ergonomics of motor vehicles including automobiles motorcycles trucks buses coaches and functional design and development of a modern motor vehicle is typically done by a large team from many different disciplines included within automotive engineering however design roles are not associated with requirements for professional or chartered engineer qualifications. automotive design in this context is primarily concerned with developing the visual appearance or aesthetics of the vehicle though it is also involved in the creation of the product concept. automotive design as a professional vocation is practiced by designers who may have an art background and a degree in industrial design or transportation terminology used in the field is found in the glossary of automotive design..design is a top level domain name. it was proposed in icanns new generic top level domain gtld program and became available to the general public on may 2015. top level design is the domain name registry for the string.prime designtime design is a live album written by the american jazz composer ornette coleman and recorded by a string quartet with ornettes son denardo coleman on drums at the caravan of dreams in and released on the caravan of dreams label.the design of experiments doe dox or experimental design is the design of any task that aims to describe and explain the variation of information under conditions that are hypothesized to reflect the variation. the term is generally associated with experiments in which the design introduces conditions that directly affect the variation but may also refer to the design of quasi experiments in which natural conditions that influence the variation are selected for its simplest form an experiment aims at predicting the outcome by introducing a change of the preconditions which is represented by one or more independent variables also referred to as input variables or predictor variables. the change in one or more independent variables is generally hypothesized to result in a change in one or more dependent variables also referred to as output variables or response variables. the experimental design may also identify control variables that must be held constant to prevent external factors from affecting the results. experimental design involves not only the selection of suitable independent dependent and control variables but planning the delivery of the experiment under statistically optimal conditions given the constraints of available resources. there are multiple approaches for determining the set of design points unique combinations of the settings of the independent variables to be used in the concerns in experimental design include the establishment of validity reliability and replicability. for example these concerns can be partially addressed by carefully choosing the independent variable reducing the risk of measurement error and ensuring that the documentation of the method is sufficiently detailed. related concerns include achieving appropriate levels of statistical power and designed experiments advance knowledge in the natural and social sciences and engineering. other applications include marketing and policy making. the study of the design of experiments is an important topic in metascience.