fanfiction.net often abbreviated as ff.net or ffn is an automated fan fiction archive site. it was founded on october 1998 by los angeles computer programmer xing li who also runs the site. it has over million registered users and hosts stories in over languages.
the site is split into nine main categories animemanga books cartoons miscellaneous games comics movies playsmusicals and tv shows. the site also includes the crossover category added on march 2009. users who complete the free registration process can submit their fan fiction maintain a user profile review other stories apply for a beta reader position contact each other via private messages and maintain a list of favorite stories and authors. there are centralized communities and forums. in lieu of signing up with a new account the website allows users to use their google facebook or twitter accounts. the site also owns a twitter account called fictionpress where users of the website are updated on changes and improvements made.archive of our own is a nonprofit open source repository for fanfiction fic and other fanworks contributed by users. the site was created in by the organization for transformative works and went into open beta in as of december archive of our own hosted million works in over fandoms. the site has received positive reception for its curation organization and design mostly done by readers and writers. slash fiction also known as mm slash is a genre of fan fiction that focuses on romantic or sexual relationships between fictional characters of the same sex. while the term slash originally referred only to stories in which male characters are involved in an explicit sexual relationship as a primary plot element it is now also used to refer to any fan story containing a romantic pairing between same sex characters. many fans distinguish female focused slash as a separate genre commonly referred to as femslash also known as ff slash or fan written stories are not accepted canon and the characters are usually not engaged in such relationships in their respective fictional universes.a mary sue is a type of fictional character usually a young woman who is portrayed as unrealistically free of weaknesses. originating in fan fiction a mary sue is often an authors idealized self insertion. mary sue stories are often written by adolescent authors.the term mary sue was coined by paula smith as a characters name in the parody short story a trekkies tale which satirized idealized female characters widespread in star trek fan fiction. a male character with similar traits may be labeled a gary stu or marty stu.fan fiction ranges from a couple of sentences to an entire novel and fans can both keep the creators characters and settings andor add their own. it is a form of fan labor. fan fiction can be based on any fictional and sometimes non fictional subject. common bases for fan fiction include novels movies bands and video fiction is rarely commissioned or authorized by the original works creator or publisher and is rarely professionally published. it may infringe on the original authors copyright depending on the jurisdiction and on legal questions such as whether or not it qualifies as fair use see legal issues with fan fiction. attitudes of authors and copyright owners of original works to fan fiction have ranged from indifference to encouragement to rejection. copyright owners have occasionally responded with legal term came into use in the century as copyright laws began to delineate between stories using established characters that were authorized by the copyright holder and those that were not.fan fiction is defined by being related to its subjects canonical fictional universe either staying within those boundaries but not being of the canon itself or else branching outside of it into an alternative universe. thus what is fanon is separate from what is canon. fan fiction is often written and published within circles of fans and therefore would usually not cater to readers who have no knowledge of the original fiction.