lgbt or glbt is an initialism that stands for lesbian gay bisexual and transgender. in use since the the term is an adaptation of the initialism lgb which began to replace the term gay in reference to the broader lgbt community beginning in the mid to late the initialism as well as some of its common variants functions as an umbrella term for sexuality and gender identity.it may refer to anyone who is non heterosexual or non cisgender instead of exclusively to people who are lesbian gay bisexual or transgender. to recognize this inclusion a popular variant lgbtq adds the letter q for those who identify as queer or are questioning their sexual identity. those who add intersex people to lgbt groups or organizing may use the extended initialism lgbti. these two initialisms are sometimes combined to form the terms lgbtiq or to encompass spectrums of sexuality and gender. other less common variants also exist such as with the a standing for asexual or aromantic. longer acronyms with some being over twice as long as lgbt have prompted criticism for their length and the implication that the acronym refers to a single community is also controversial.attitudes toward lesbian gay bisexual and transgender lgbt people and their experiences in the muslim world have been influenced by its religious legal social political and cultural quran narrates the story of the people of lot destroyed by the wrath of god because the men engaged in lustful carnal acts between themselves. some hadith collections also condemn homosexual and transgender acts prescribing death penalty for male homosexual intercourse.there is little evidence of homosexual practice in islamic societies for the first century and a half of the islamic era. homoerotic themes were cultivated in poetry and other literary genres written in major languages of the muslim world from the century into the modern era. the conceptions of homosexuality found in classical islamic texts resemble the traditions of graeco roman antiquity rather than the modern understanding of sexual orientation.homosexual acts are forbidden in traditional islamic jurisprudence and are liable to different punishments including the death penalty depending on the situation and legal school. however homosexual relationships were generally tolerated in pre modern islamic societies and historical records suggest that these laws were invoked infrequently mainly in cases of rape or other exceptionally blatant infringement on public morals. public attitudes toward homosexuality in the muslim world underwent a marked negative change starting from the century through the gradual spread of islamic fundamentalist movements such as salafism and wahhabism and the influence of the sexual notions and restrictive norms prevalent in europe at the time a number of muslim majority countries have retained criminal penalties for homosexual acts enacted under european colonial rule.in recent times extreme prejudice against homosexuals persists both socially and legally in much of the islamic world exacerbated by increasingly conservative attitudes and the rise of islamist movements. in afghanistan brunei iran mauritania nigeria saudi arabia parts of somalia sudan united arab emirates and yemen homosexual activity carries the death penalty or prison sentences. in other countries such as algeria bangladesh chad malaysia maldives pakistan qatar somalia and syria it is illegal and penalties may be imposed. same sex sexual intercourse is legal in albania azerbaijan bahrain bosnia and herzegovina burkina faso djibouti guinea bissau iraq jordan kazakhstan kosovo kyrgyzstan lebanon mali niger tajikistan turkey most of indonesia the west bank state of palestine and northern cyprus. homosexual relations between females are legal in kuwait turkmenistan and uzbekistan but homosexual acts between males are illegal.most muslim majority countries and the organisation of islamic cooperation oic have opposed moves to advance lgbt rights at the united nations in the general assembly or the unhrc. in may a group of muslim majority states blocked gay and transgender organizations from attending the high level meeting on ending aids. however albania and sierra leone have signed a un declaration supporting lgbt rights. lgbt anti discrimination laws have been enacted in albania kosovo and northern cyprus. there are also several organizations for lgbt muslims which support lgbt rights and others which attempt conversion therapy..lgbt is a sponsored top level domain for the lgbt community sponsored by afilias. the domain name was delegated to the root zone on july the creation of .lgbt is meant to promote diversity and lgbt businesses and is open to lgbt businesses organizations and anyone wishing to reach the lgbt community.gay pride or lgbt pride is the promotion of the self affirmation dignity equality and increased visibility of lesbian gay bisexual and transgender lgbt people as a social group. pride as opposed to shame and social stigma is the predominant outlook that bolsters most lgbt rights movements. pride has lent its name to lgbt themed organizations institutes foundations book titles periodicals a cable tv station and the pride from solemn to carnivalesque pride events are typically held during lgbt pride month or some other period that commemorates a turning point in a countrys lgbt history for example moscow pride in may for the anniversary of russias decriminalization of homosexuality. some pride events include lgbt pride parades and marches rallies commemorations community days dance parties and of plans were advancing by the state of new york to host in the largest international celebration of lgbt pride in history stonewall – worldpride nyc to commemorate the anniversary of the stonewall riots. in new york city the stonewall – worldpride nyc events produced by heritage of pride were enhanced through a partnership made with the i love ny programs lgbt division and included a welcome center during the weeks surrounding the stonewall – worldpride nyc events that were be open to all. additional commemorative arts cultural and educational programming to mark the anniversary of the rebellion at the stonewall inn took place throughout the city and the world.common symbols of pride are the rainbow or pride flag the lowercase greek letter lambda the pink triangle and the black triangle these latter two reclaimed from use as badges of shame in nazi concentration camps.the lgbt community has adopted certain symbols for self identification to demonstrate unity pride shared values and allegiance to one another. lgbt symbols communicate ideas concepts and identity both within their communities and to mainstream culture. the two most recognized international lgbt symbols are the pink triangle and the rainbow flag.lgbt billionaires refers to people who identify as lgbt and who are billionaires in terms of the monetary fortune they control and their net worth. as of italian fashion designer giorgio armani who has a net worth of was the worlds richest person who is openly part of the lgbt community according to us lgbt interest magazine the advocate. armani has a long term lover sean melo. they have been together sincerights affecting lesbian gay bisexual and transgender lgbt people vary greatly by country or jurisdiction encompassing everything from the legal recognition of same sex marriage to the death penalty for homosexuality. notably as of 29 countries recognized same sex marriage. by contrast not counting non state actors and extrajudicial killings only one country is believed to impose the death penalty on consensual same sex sexual acts iran. the death penalty is officially law but generally not practiced in afghanistan brunei mauritania nigeria in the northern third of the country saudi arabia somalia in the autonomous state of jubaland and the united arab emirates. sudan rescinded its unenforced death penalty for anal sex hetero or homosexual in 15 countries have stoning on the books as a penalty for adultery which would include gay sex but this is only enforced by the legal authorities in iran.in the united nations human rights council passed its first resolution recognizing lgbt rights following which the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights issued a report documenting violations of the rights of lgbt people including hate crimes criminalization of homosexual activity and discrimination. following the issuance of the report the united nations urged all countries which had not yet done so to enact laws protecting basic lgbt rights.lgbt slang lgbt speak or gay slang is a set of slang lexicon used predominantly among lgbt people. it has been used in various languages since the early century as a means by which members of the lgbt community identify themselves and speak in code with brevity and speed to others.the lgbt community also known as the lgbtq community glbt community or the gay community is a loosely defined grouping of lesbian gay bisexual transgender lgbt organizations and subcultures united by a common culture and social movements. these communities generally celebrate pride diversity individuality and sexuality. lgbt activists and sociologists see lgbt community building as a counterweight to heterosexism homophobia biphobia transphobia sexualism and conformist pressures that exist in the larger society. the term pride or sometimes gay pride expresses the lgbt communitys identity and collective strength pride parades provide both a prime example of the use and a demonstration of the general meaning of the term. the lgbt community is diverse in political affiliation. not all people who are lesbian gay bisexual or transgender consider themselves part of the lgbt that may be considered part of the lgbt community include gay villages lgbt rights organizations lgbt employee groups at companies lgbt student groups in schools and universities and lgbt affirming religious communities may organize themselves into or support movements for civil rights promoting lgbt rights in various places around the world.lgbt slogans are catchphrases or slogans which express support for members of the lesbian gay bisexual and transgender lgbt communities and lgbt rights.