naruto uzumaki japanese ナルト hepburn uzumaki naruto is a fictional character in the manga and anime franchise naruto created by masashi kishimoto. serving as the eponymous protagonist of the series he is a young ninja from the fictional village of konohagakure hidden leaf village. the villagers ridicule naruto on account of the nine tailed demon fox a malevolent creature that attacked konohagakure that was sealed away in narutos body. despite this he aspires to become his villages leader the hokage in order to receive their approval. his carefree optimistic and boisterous personality enables him to befriend other konohagakure ninja as well as ninja from other villages. naruto appears in the series films and in other media related to the franchise including video games and original video animations ova as well as the sequel boruto naruto next generations by ukyo kodachi where narutos son boruto is the creating naruto for the initial part of the series kishimoto kept the character simple and stupid while giving him many attributes of an ideal hero. kishimoto gave naruto a dark side by adding tragedy to the characters past. he has revised narutos image many times providing the character with different clothes intended to appeal to western audiences and to make him easier to illustrate. kishimoto changed his design for part ii of the storyline which starts two and a half years after part i. naruto is voiced by junko takeuchi in the original animated series and maile flanagan in the english based on naruto includes figurines and keychains. narutos character development has been praised by anime and manga publications and has drawn scholarly attention. although some initially saw him as a typical manga and anime protagonist comparable to those in other manga others have praised his personality and character development as he avoids stereotypes typically seen in similar media. the character has also been the subject of researches in literature making him stand out in fiction based on his traits and growth.naruto is a japanese manga series written and illustrated by masashi kishimoto. it tells the story of naruto uzumaki a young ninja who seeks recognition from his peers and dreams of becoming the hokage the leader of his village. the story is told in two parts the first set in narutos pre teen years and the second in his teens. the series is based on two one shot manga by kishimoto karakuri which earned kishimoto an honorable mention in shueishas monthly hop step award the following year and naruto was serialized in shueishas magazine weekly jump from to and released in book form in volumes. the manga was adapted into an anime television series produced by pierrot and aniplex which broadcast episodes in japan from to the english adaptation of the series aired on cartoon network and ytv from to naruto shippuden a sequel to the original series premiered in japan in and ended in after episodes. the english adaptation was broadcast on disney xd from to airing the first episodes and then switched over to adult swims toonami programming block in january starting over from the first episode. the english adaptation is still airing weekly on adult swim to this day. besides the anime series pierrot has developed eleven movies and twelve original video animations ovas. other naruto related merchandise includes light novels video games and trading cards developed by several media licensed the manga and anime for north american production and serialized naruto in their digital weekly shonen jump magazine. the anime series began airing in the united states and canada in and in the united kingdom and australia in and respectively. the films and most ovas from the series were also released by viz with the first film premiering in movie theaters. viz media began streaming the two anime series on their streaming service neon alley in december the story of naruto continues with narutos son boruto uzumaki in boruto naruto next generations boruto wishes to create his own ninja way instead of following his is the fourth best selling manga series in history selling million copies worldwide in countries with million of the sales in japan alone and remaining million copies elsewhere. it has become one of viz medias best selling manga series their english translations of the volumes have appeared on usa today and the new york times bestseller list several times and the seventh volume won a quill award in reviewers praised the mangas character development strong storylines and well executed fight scenes though some felt the fight scenes slowed the story down. critics noted that the manga which has a coming of age theme makes use of cultural references from japanese mythology and confucianism.boruto naruto next generations is a japanese anime series based on the manga series of the same name and is a spin off of and sequel to masashi kishimotos naruto. it is produced by pierrot and broadcast on tv tokyo. the anime is directed by noriyuki abe chief director hiroyuki yamashita toshirō fujii and masayuki 105– and is written by makoto uezu and masaya honda manga writer kodachi is supervising the follows the exploits of naruto uzumakis son boruto and his comrades from the hidden leaf villages ninja academy while finding a path to follow once they grow up. despite being based on the manga the anime explores original storylines and adaptations of the spin off manga naruto the seventh hokage and the scarlet spring boruto naruto the movie as well as the naruto shinden light novel series.it premiered on tv tokyo on april 2017 and aired every wednesday at pm jst. starting may 2018 episode it aired every thursday at pm jst. starting october 2018 episode it now airs every sunday at pm jst. the series is also being released in dvds. viz media licensed the series on march 2017 to simulcast it on hulu and on crunchyroll. on april 2020 it was announced that episode and onward would be delayed due to the ongoing covid pandemic. after a two month hiatus the episode resumed on july 2020.
the opening theme songs for the season are baton road by kana boon episodes 26 over by little glee monster episodes its all in the game by qyoto episodes lonely go by brian the sun episodes 100 golden time by fujifabric episodes teenage dream by miwa episodes hajimatteiku takamatteiku by sambomaster episodes and baku by ikimonogakari episodes ending theme songs are dreamy journey by the peggies episodes 13 sayonara moon town by scenarioart episodes boku wa hashiritsuzukeru by melofloat episodes denshin tamashii by game sha wakuwaku band episodes kachō by coalamode episodes laika by bird bear hare and fish episodes polaris by hitorie episodes tsuyogari loser by real episodes 100 ride or die by skypeace episodes mikansei na hikari tachi by haruka fukuhara episodes wish on by longman episodes fireworks by flowback episodes maybe i by seven billion dots episodes central by ami sakaguchi episodes and answers by mol episodes the united states the english dub made its premiere on adult swims toonami programming block on september 2018. adult swim removed the series from the blocks rotation after episode on october 2019. jason demarco addressed on twitter that they currently have no plans to bring the anime back.nagato japanese known primarily under the alias of pain pein is a fictional character in the manga and anime series naruto created by masashi kishimoto. nagato appears as the acting leader of the akatsuki who wish to capture the tailed beasts sealed into various shinobi around the shinobi world. after he works behind the scenes and seals most of the beasts within a statue nagatos superior gives him the mission to capture the nine tailed demon fox sealed inside the series protagonist naruto uzumaki whom he turns out to be related to. before leaving to capture naruto nagato engages in a mortal battle with his former mentor jiraiya. his past as a child who lost his parents and best friend during war is explored. due to his traumatic experiences related to the conflicts from the ninja village nagato aims to create a new world that does not have to suffer from the chaos of wars. nagato also appears in the series video games reprising his role from was conceived by kishimoto as a villain a victim of war who would show naruto the impact of world wars something kishimoto aimed to explore throughout the series. while nagato does not fight in the story he uses a group of corpses known as the six paths of pain pein all of them were given an elaborated design with multiple piercings across their bodies to reinforce the idea that despite his calm demeanor nagato is a dangerous person. several voice actors have voiced nagato and the six paths of pain in both the english and the japanese animated adaptations of the response to nagatos character has been generally positive because of the chaos he creates throughout the story including the murder of jiraiya and the destruction of an entire village while chasing naruto. his eventual fight against naruto has been regarded as one of the best battles in the entire series. this is due not only to the techniques used by both fighters but because of their interactions in relation to the chaos of wars. because of this kishimoto was able to bring more depth to a series aimed at a young demographic.boruto naruto next generations is a japanese manga series written by kodachi and masashi kishimoto and illustrated by mikio ikemoto. it began monthly serialization with kodachi as writer and kishimoto as editorial supervisor in shueishas manga magazine weekly jump in may and was transferred to shueishas monthly magazine v jump in july in november kodachi stepped down with kishimoto taking over as writer. boruto is a spin off and a sequel to kishimotos naruto which follows the exploits of naruto uzumakis son boruto uzumaki and his ninja originated from shueishas proposal to kishimoto on making a sequel to naruto. however kishimoto rejected this offer and proposed his former assistant mikio ikemoto to draw it the writer of the film boruto naruto the movie kodachi created the plot. while both kodachi and ikemoto are in charge of the manga. an anime television series adaptation directed by noriyuki abe started airing on tv tokyo on april unlike the manga which began as a retelling of the boruto film the anime begins as a prequel set before boruto and his friends become ninjas in a later story arc. a series of light novels have also been anime prequel also earned praise for its use of both new and returning characters but the narrative of the manga was noted to be more serious as it focused more on the protagonist. shueisha has shipped a million copies of the manga series as of januarythe naruto japanese manga and anime series features an extensive cast of characters created by masashi kishimoto. the series takes place in a fictional universe where countries vie for power by employing ninja who can use superhuman abilities in combat. the storyline is divided into two parts simply named part i and part ii with the latter taking place two and a half years after the conclusion of part i. it is followed by the sequel series boruto naruto next generations by kodachi which continues where the epilogue of the first series left off. the series storyline follows the adventures of a group of young ninja from the village of konohagakure village hidden in the eponymous character of the first series is naruto uzumaki an energetic ninja who wishes to become hokage the leader of konohagakure and holds a monster called the nine tails in his body. during the early part of the series naruto is assigned to team in which he meets his rival sasuke uchiha a taciturn and highly skilled genius of the uchiha clan sakura haruno who is infatuated with sasuke and has narutos attention and kakashi hatake the quiet and mysterious leader of the team. over the course of the series seeking out sasuke when he ran away from the village naruto interacts with and befriends several fellow ninja in konohagakure and other villages. he also encounters the series antagonists including orochimaru a former ninja of konohagakure scheming to destroy his former home as well as the elite ninja of the criminal organization akatsuki who seek out jinchuriki like gaara for the tailed eponymous character of the second series is boruto uzumaki the son of naruto and hinata hyuga who is assigned to team konohamaru also known as team which includes sasuke and sakuras daughter sarada uchiha orochimarus artificially created son mitsuki and the groups leader konohamaru the third hokages grandson whom naruto befriended as a he developed the series kishimoto created the three primary characters as a basis for the designs of the other three person teams. he also used characters in other manga as references in his design of the characters a decision that was criticized by several anime and manga publications. the characters that kishimoto developed however were praised for incorporating many of the better aspects of previous characters although many publications lamented the perceived lack of growth beyond such stereotypes. the visual presentation of the characters was commented on by reviewers with both praise and criticism given to kishimotos work in the manga and anime adaptations.naruto video games have appeared for various consoles from nintendo sony and microsoft. most of them are fighting games in which the player directly controls one of a select few characters based on their counterparts in the naruto anime and manga. the player pits their character against another character controlled by the games ai or by another player depending on the mode the player is in. the objective is to reduce the opponents health to zero using basic attacks and special techniques unique to each character derived from techniques they use in the naruto anime or manga. the first naruto video game was naruto konoha which was released in japan on march 2003 for the wonderswan color. most naruto video games have been released only in japan. the first games released outside japan were the naruto gekitou ninja taisen series and the naruto saikyou ninja daikesshu series released in north america under the titles of naruto clash of ninja and naruto ninja council. in january namco bandai announced that they have sold million naruto games worldwide.naruto shippuden is an anime series adapted from part ii of masashi kishimotos manga series with exactly episodes. it is set two and a half years after part i in the naruto universe following the ninja teenager naruto uzumaki and his allies. the series is directed by hayato date and produced by pierrot and tv tokyo. it began broadcasting on february 2007 on tv tokyo and concluded on march 2017.on january 2009 viz media and crunchyroll provided eight uncut english subtitled naruto shippuden episodes on the official naruto website. later on january viz began providing subtitled versions of the latest naruto shippuden episodes a week after they first aired in japan with a new episode being added to the naruto website each subsequent thursday. the english dub of naruto shippuden made its us premiere on disney xd on october 2009. on july 2009 viz media announced that the series would be released on the itunes store. the first dvd release of the series in north america was released on september 2009.naruto shippuden stopped airing on disney xd on november 2011 after episodes in which the network cited more frequent violence that was shown in later episodes. dvd box sets generally containing thirteen dubbed episodes from episode onward are being released quarterly in their uncut format. the english dub was streamed on the neon alley web channel from its launch in october and beginning december 2012 with episode dubbed episodes premiered every week uncut until march 2016 about a month before neon alleys closure. adult swims toonami programming block began airing the anime from the beginning on january 2014 in an uncut format and as of it is still running on a weekly basis. toonami co creator and current block runner jason demarco has commented that the plan is to broadcast the anime in its entirety until four regions episodes from the series have been released on dvd and blu ray by single volumes and box sets. in north america twelve single volumes and thirty eight box sets have been released. in the united kingdom twenty eight single volumes and six box sets have been released. in japan twenty six sets of volumes have been released based on which arc it represents. in australia and new zealand twenty eight collections have been released.naruto ultimate ninja known in japan as the naruto narutimate series japanese naruto ナルティメットシリーズ hepburn naruto narutimetto is a series of fighting video games based on the popular manga and anime series naruto by masashi kishimoto for the playstation they were developed by and published by bandai and later bandai namco games. it was followed by four more titles for the playstation as well as five spinoffs for the playstation portable and a follow up title for the playstation entitled naruto ultimate ninja storm. while starting out as a series exclusive to the playstation family of systems the series has also been present on xbox devices since the release of naruto shippuden ultimate ninja storm for the xbox and also present to microsoft for the naruto shippuden ultimate ninja storm on the microsoft windows. naruto ultimate ninja series sold over million copies worldwide as of decembernaruto is an anime series based on masashi kishimotos manga series of the same name. the series centers on the adventures of naruto uzumaki a young ninja of konohagakure searching for recognitions and wishing to become hokage the ninja that is acknowledged by the rest of the village to be the leader and the strongest of all. the series was directed by hayato date and produced by pierrot and tv tokyo. the episodes are based on the first twenty seven volumes in part i of the manga while some episodes feature original self contained storylines.the episodes that constitute the series were aired between october 2002 and february 2007 on tv tokyo in japan. the english version of the series was released in north america by viz media and began airing on september 2005 on cartoon networks toonami programming block in the united states. on september 2008 cartoon network ended its toonami block but the channel continued sporadically airing episodes of naruto in the time slots originally occupied by toonamis programming until january 2009 when episode the last episode to air in the us was shown due to the closure of toonami jetstream.on march 2009 viz stated that they were still dubbing new episodes and intended to see them aired on television. ultimately the final eleven episodes of the series never aired in the united states but they were collected on dvd by viz which was released on september 2009. the remaining eleven episodes of the english version aired on ytvs bionix programming block in canada from october 2009 to december 2009. adult swims relaunched toonami block reran the first episodes in a completely uncut format from december 2012 to november 2013. after the episode the series was removed from the schedule rotation to make room for its successor series naruto shippuden.episodes from the series have been published in dvd. the first dvd series of naruto collectibles has been the only one to be released on vhs in japan. there are a total of five seasons with each of the including four episodes per volume. first episodes from the series has also been collected in three dvd boxes during beginning on march 2006 viz released the series on dvd. the uncut english editions are compiled in dvd box sets each containing episodes with some variation based on story arcs. in september viz media announced that the series would be released on blu ray starting in november of that year.