this is a list of notable people who identify with a gender that is outside of the gender binary i.e. non binary or genderqueer. non binary gender identities include agender and bigender.non binary also spelled nonbinary or genderqueer is a spectrum of gender identities that are not exclusively masculine or ‌identities that are outside the gender binary. non binary identities can fall under the transgender umbrella since many non binary people identify with a gender that is different from their assigned sex. another term for non binary is enby from the abbreviation nb.non binary people may identify as having two or more genders being bigender or trigender having no gender agender nongendered genderless genderfree or neutrois moving between genders or having a fluctuating gender identity genderfluid being third gender or other gendered a category that includes those who do not place a name to their gender.gender identity is separate from sexual or romantic orientation and non binary people have a variety of sexual orientations just as cisgender people do.non binary gender identities are not associated with a specific gender expression such as androgyny. non binary people as a group have a wide variety of gender expressions and some may reject gender identities altogether. some non binary people are medically treated for gender dysphoria with surgery or hormones as trans men and women often are.gender binary also known as gender binarism binarism or ambiguously genderism is the classification of gender into two distinct opposite forms of masculine and feminine whether by social system or cultural this binary model sex gender and sexuality may be assumed by default to align with aspects of ones gender inherently linked to ones genetic or gamete based sex or with ones sex assigned at birth. for example when a male is born gender binarism may assume the male will be masculine in appearance character traits and behavior including having a heterosexual attraction to females. these aspects may include expectations of dressing behavior sexual orientation names or pronouns preferred restroom or other qualities. these expectations may reinforce negative attitudes bias and discrimination towards people who display expressions of gender variance or nonconformity or whose gender identity is incongruent with their birth sex.international non binary peoples day is observed each year on july and is aimed at raising awareness and organising around the issues faced by non binary people around the world. the day was first celebrated in the date was chosen for being precisely between international mens day and international womens day.most countries in the world do not recognize non binary as a legal gender meaning most non binary people still have a gendered passport and official identification. australia bangladesh canada denmark germany india the netherlands and new zealand include non binary gender options on passports and us states allow residents to mark their gender as x on their driving licence.non binary awareness week is the week starting on the sunday or monday preceding international non binary peoples day on july. this is a awareness period dedicated to those who do not fit within the traditional gender binary i.e. those who do not exclusively identify as a man or a woman or who may identify as both a man and a woman or may fall outside of these categories altogether.gender variance or gender nonconformity is behavior or gender expression by an individual that does not match masculine or feminine gender norms. people who exhibit gender variance may be called gender variant gender non conforming gender diverse gender atypical or non binary and may be transgender or otherwise variant in their gender identity. in the case of transgender people they may be perceived or perceive themselves as gender nonconforming before transitioning but might not be perceived as such after transitioning. some intersex people may also exhibit gender variance.multiple countries legally recognize non binary or third gender classifications. in some countries such classifications may only be available to intersex people born with sex characteristics that do not fit the typical definitions for male or female bodies. in other countries they may only or also be available to people with gender identities that differ from their sex assigned at birth.some non western societies have long recognized transgender andor non binary people as a third gender though this may not or may only recently include formal legal recognition. among western nations australia may have been the first to recognize a third classification following recognition of alex macfarlane as having indeterminate sex reported in transgender advocate norrie may welby was recognized as having unspecified status in in the united states an oregon circuit court ruled in that jamie shupe could legally change their gender to non binary.discrimination or prejudice against non binary people people who do not identify as exclusively male or female may occur in social legal or medical contexts. both cisgender and binary transgender people men and women including members of the lesbian gay and bisexual communities can display such prejudice.non binary also spelled nonbinary or genderqueer is a spectrum of gender identities that are not exclusively masculine or ‌identities that are outside the gender binary. non binary identities can fall under the transgender umbrella since many non binary people identify with a gender that is different from their assigned sex. another term for non binary is enby from the abbreviation nb. this page examines non binary characters in fictional works as a whole focusing on characters and tropes in cinema and more information about fictional characters in other parts of the lgbtq community see the corresponding pages about pansexual intersex and gay characters in fiction.a gender neutral title is a title that does not indicate the gender of the person being formally addressed such as in a letter or other communication or when introducing the person to others. by comparison the traditional honorifics of miss mrs ms and mr all indicate the binary gender of the newer term mx avoids specifying gender for persons who wish not to indicate a gender binary or for whom the gender is not whose gender identity does not fit the gender binaryhonorifics are used in situations when it is inappropriate to refer to someone only by their first or last name such as when addressing a letter dear mx jones or when introducing the person to others. activists supporters and others are working toward awareness and acceptance of alternative honorifics including mx.this is a list of non binary characters in fiction i.e. fictional characters that either self identify as non binary or genderqueer or have been identified by outside parties as such. listed are agender bigender genderfluid genderqueer and other characters of non binary gender as well as characters of any third more information about fictional characters in other parts of the lgbtq community see the lists of lesbian with sub pages for characters in anime and animation bisexual with sub sections for characters in anime and animation gay pansexual trans asexual and intersex names are organized alphabetically by surname i.e. last name or by single name if the character does not have a surname. if more than two characters are in one entry the last name of the first character is used.