the world wide web www commonly known as the web is an information system where documents and other web resources are identified by uniform resource locators urls such as httpsexample.com which may be interlinked by hypertext and are accessible over the internet. the resources of the web are transferred via the hypertext transfer protocol http may be accessed by users by a software application called a web browser and are published by a software application called a web server. the world wide web is not synonymous with the internet which pre dated the web in some form by over two decades and upon which technologies the web is scientist sir timothy berners lee invented the world wide web in he wrote the first web browser in while employed at cern near geneva switzerland. the browser was released outside cern to other research institutions starting in january and then to the general public in august the web began to enter everyday use in 4 when websites for general use started to become available. the world wide web has been central to the development of the information age and is the primary tool billions of people use to interact on the internet.web resources may be any type of downloaded media but web pages are hypertext documents formatted in hypertext markup language html. special html syntax displays embedded hyperlinks with urls which permits users to navigate to other web resources. in addition to text web pages may contain references to images video audio and software components which are either displayed or internally executed in the users web browser to render pages or streams of multimedia web resources with a common theme and usually a common domain name make up a website. websites are stored in computers that are running a web server which is a program that responds to requests made over the internet from web browsers running on a users computer. website content can be provided by a publisher or interactively from user generated content. websites are provided for a myriad of informative entertainment commercial and governmental reasons.an integrated development environment ide is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. an ide normally consists of at least a source code editor build automation tools and a debugger. some ides such as netbeans and eclipse contain the necessary compiler interpreter or both others such as sharpdevelop and lazarus do boundary between an ide and other parts of the broader software development environment is not well defined sometimes a version control system or various tools to simplify the construction of a graphical user interface gui are integrated. many modern ides also have a class browser an object browser and a class hierarchy diagram for use in object oriented software development.web development tools often called devtools allow web developers to test and debug their code. they are different from website builders and integrated development environments ides in that they do not assist in the direct creation of a webpage rather they are tools used for testing the user interface of a website or web development tools come as browser add ons or built in features in web browsers. most popular web browsers such as google chrome firefox internet explorer safari microsoft edge and opera have built in tools to help web developers and many additional add ons can be found in their respective plugin download development tools allow developers to work with a variety of web technologies including html css the dom javascript and other components that are handled by the web browser. due to increasing demand from web browsers to do more popular web browsers have included more features geared for developers.a web application or web app is application software that runs on a web server unlike computer based software programs that are run locally on the operating system os of the device. web applications are accessed by the user through a web browser with an active network connection. these applications are programmed using a modeled structure the user client is provided services through an off site server that is hosted by a third party. examples of commonly used web applications include web mail online retail sales online banking and online auctions.in systems engineering information systems and software engineering the systems development life cycle sdlc also referred to as the application development life cycle is a process for planning creating testing and deploying an information system. the systems development life cycle concept applies to a range of hardware and software configurations as a system can be composed of hardware only software only or a combination of both. there are usually six stages in this cycle requirement analysis design development and testing implementation documentation and evaluation.in software development agile sometimes written agile practices involve discovering requirements and developing solutions through the collaborative effort of self organizing and cross functional teams and their customersend users. it advocates adaptive planning evolutionary development early delivery and continual improvement and it encourages flexible responses to change.it was popularized by the manifesto for agile software development. the values and principles espoused in this manifesto were derived from and underpin a broad range of software development frameworks including scrum and kanban.while there is much anecdotal evidence that adopting agile practices and values improves the agility of software professionals teams and organizations the empirical evidence is mixed and hard to find.front end web development is the practice of converting data to a graphical interface through the use of html css and javascript so that users can view and interact with that data.web development is the work involved in developing a web site for the internet world wide web or an intranet a private network. web development can range from developing a simple single static page of plain text to complex web based internet applications web apps electronic businesses and social network services. a more comprehensive list of tasks to which web development commonly refers may include web engineering web design web content development client liaison client sideserver side scripting web server and network security configuration and e commerce development. among web professionals web development usually refers to the main non design aspects of building web sites writing markup and coding. web development may use content management systems cms to make content changes easier and available with basic technical larger organizations and businesses web development teams can consist of hundreds of people web developers and follow standard methods like agile methodologies while developing web sites. smaller organizations may only require a single permanent or contracting developer or secondary assignment to related job positions such as a graphic designer or information systems technician. web development may be a collaborative effort between departments rather than the domain of a designated department. there are three kinds of web developer specialization front end developer back end developer and full stack developer. front end developers are responsible for behavior and visuals that run in the user browser while back end developers deal with the servers.a web framework wf or web application framework waf is a software framework that is designed to support the development of web applications including web services web resources and web apis. web frameworks provide a standard way to build and deploy web applications on the world wide web. web frameworks aim to automate the overhead associated with common activities performed in web development. for example many web frameworks provide libraries for database access templating frameworks and session management and they often promote code reuse. although they often target development of dynamic web sites they are also applicable to static websites.in web development hydration or rehydration is a technique in which client side javascript converts a static html web page delivered either through static hosting or server side rendering into a dynamic web page by attaching event handlers to the html elements. because the html is pre rendered on a server this allows for a fast first contentful paint when useful data is first displayed to the user but there is a period of time afterward where the page appears to be fully loaded and interactive but is not until the client side javascript is executed and event handlers have been attached.frameworks that use hydration include next.js and nuxt.js. react introduced a hydrate function which hydrates an element in its api.