the following are lists of highest grossing anime films. they include the all time highest grossing anime films the highest grossing anime films by year and the highest grossing anime film franchises. this article only covers box office revenue and does not include ancillary revenue from other sources such as home entertainment or merchandise sales.the history of anime can be traced back to the start of the century with the earliest verifiable films dating from before the advent of film japan already had a rich tradition of entertainment with colourful painted figures moving across the projection screen in utsushi e a particular japanese type of magic lantern show popular in the century. possibly inspired by european phantasmagoria shows utushi e showmen used mechanical slides and developed lightweight wooden projectors furo that were handheld so that several performers could each control the motions of different projected figures.the first generation of animators in the late included shimokawa junichi and seitaro kitayama commonly referred to as the fathers of anime. propaganda films such as no umiwashi and umi no shinpei the latter being the first anime feature film were made during world war ii. during the anime developed further with the inspiration of disney animators separating itself from its western roots and developing distinct genres such as mecha and its super robot subgenre. typical shows from this period include astro boy lupin iii and mazinger z. during this period several filmmakers became famous especially hayao miyazaki and mamoru the anime became mainstream in japan experiencing a boom in production with the rise in popularity of anime like gundam macross dragon ball and genres such as real robot space opera and cyberpunk. space battleship yamato and the super dimension fortress macross also achieved worldwide success after being adapted respectively as star blazers and film akira set records in for the production costs of an anime film and went on to become an international success. later in the same creators produced steamboy which took over as the most expensive anime film. spirited away shared the first prize at the berlin film festival and won the academy award for best animated feature while innocence ghost in the shell was featured at the cannes film festival.the crunchyroll anime awards are awards given annually by the anime streaming service crunchyroll to recognize the best anime of the previous year. announced in december the awards were first presented in january crunchyroll describes it as a global event recognizes the anime shows characters and artists that fans around the world love most.the crunchyroll anime awards was held on february 2021 virtually. jujutsu kaisen won the anime of the year award.marvel anime is a series of four anime television series and two direct to video films produced in collaboration between marvel entertainment and japanese animation studio madhouse. the four twelve episode series based on iron man wolverine x men and blade aired in japan on animax between october and september an english language version aired in north america on between july and april each of the series guided by writer warren ellis largely features japan as the setting for the storyline.these lists of anime serve to provide an organized and methodological approach for finding related content about anime topics.animeism japanese hepburn animeizumu is a japanese late night anime programming block airing on mbs. the block was established in october with a thursday nightfriday morning schedule until april when it switched to a friday nightsaturday morning schedule. the block currently airs two series back to back which are co produced by block initially launched in october as a minute programming block in order to broadcast anime titles which were co produced by mbs beginning with code geass lelouch of the rebellion. the programming block later expanded to a one hour block in april in april mbs relaunched the programming block as animeism. in april the network reorganised the animeism block from a thursday nightfriday morning schedule to a friday nightsaturday morning schedule with mbs chief producer maruyama stating that the change was done in order to prevent conflicts with kansai tvs broadcast of noitamina.from june to january animeism signed a deal with amazon to stream their series exclusively on prime video worldwide with rage of bahamut virgin soul and altair a record of battles becoming the first titles exclusive to prime video on june 2017. in january the streaming deal was no longer in effect worldwide with prime video only exclusively streaming titles in japan only.on march 2019 mbs introduced the super animeism programming block which expands the animeism block by a half hour starting from july march 2019 it was announced at animejapan that mbs kodansha and dmm pictures formed a two year partnership to co produce anime titles for the block adapting works from kodansha published manga or creating original works into anime with domestic girlfriend being the first title produced through the partnership.hentai is anime and manga pornography. a loanword from japanese the original term listen does not describe a genre of media but rather an abnormal sexual desire or act as an abbreviation of hentai seiyoku sexual perversion. in addition to anime and manga hentai works exist in a variety of media including artwork and video games commonly known as development of hentai has been influenced by japanese cultural and historical attitudes toward sexuality. hentai works which are often self published form a significant portion of the market for doujin works including doujinshi. numerous subgenres exist depicting a variety of sexual acts and relationships as well as novel fetishes.anime japanese ipa [aɲime] listen is hand drawn and computer animation originating from japan. in japan and in japanese anime a term derived from the english word animation describes all animated works regardless of style or origin. outside of japan and in english anime is colloquial for japanese animation and refers specifically to animation produced in japan. animation produced outside of japan with similar style to japanese animation is referred to as anime influenced earliest commercial japanese animations date to a characteristic art style emerged in the with the works of cartoonist osamu tezuka and spread in following decades developing a large domestic audience. anime is distributed theatrically through television broadcasts directly to home media and over the internet. in addition to original works anime are often adaptations of japanese comics manga light novels or video games. it is classified into numerous genres targeting various broad and niche is a diverse medium with distinctive production methods that have adapted in response to emergent technologies. it combines graphic art characterization cinematography and other forms of imaginative and individualistic techniques. compared to western animation anime production generally focuses less on movement and more on the detail of settings and use of camera effects such as panning zooming and angle shots. diverse art styles are used and character proportions and features can be quite varied with a common characteristic feature being large and emotive eyes.the anime industry consists of over production companies including major studios like studio ghibli sunrise and toei animation. since the the medium has also seen international success with the rise of foreign dubbed and subtitled programming. as of japanese anime accounted for of the worlds animated television shows.events in in to the ongoing covid pandemic some titles are subject to potential delays.