be stylized in all caps is the fifth korean language ninth overall studio album by south korean boy band bts. it was released on november 2020 through big hit entertainment and columbia records nine months after its predecessor map of the soul 2020. created in response to the ongoing covid pandemic be is inspired by the thoughts and feelings the band experienced during the conception of the project. the record sees the band members contributing to various aspects of the album including songwriting development production visual aspects and is primarily a pop record encompassing hip hop edm and disco genres with elements of synth pop neo soul funk rampb 1980s and described by bts as a letter of hope be touches upon themes of comfort loneliness anxiety depression frustration restlessness sadness hope connection and was supported by the lead single life goes on which debuted at number one on the billboard hot becoming bts third consecutive number one song in the united states and peaked within the top ten of the charts in the united kingdom. be received generally positive reviews from music critics who praised the album for its authenticity and simplicity while a few had somewhat mixed feelings and found it album was bts fifth to debut at number one on the billboard making bts the fastest group to earn five chart topping albums in the united states since the beatles. bts also became the only act besides taylor swift to debut atop the billboard hot and billboard charts simultaneously. the album also topped charts in canada denmark japan lithuania new zealand norway poland the republic of ireland south korea and the walloon region of belgium it peaked within the top ten of the charts in countries including australia france germany italy netherlands sweden and the united kingdom.dynamite is a song recorded by south korean boy band bts released on august 2020 through big hit entertainment and sony music entertainment. it is the bands first song fully recorded in english. the song written by david stewart and jessica agombar and produced by stewart is an upbeat disco pop song with elements of funk soul and bubblegum pop and takes influence from music it features snapping handclaps echoing synths and celebratory horns. intended to soothe listeners during the covid pandemic the song talks about joy and appreciation for the little things that make life valuable. upon release dynamite received positive reviews from music critics with praise towards its catchiness and broadly appealing retro sound. it garnered the band their first ever grammy nomination at the annual grammy awards for best pop duogroup performance making them the first korean pop act to receive a nod from the recording debuted at number one on the billboard hot chart becoming the bands first number one single in the united states and making bts the first all south korean act to top the hot the song sold downloads in its first week marking the biggest pure sales week since taylor swifts look what you made me do dynamite stayed atop the hot for three total weeks. on spotify dynamite debuted with million streams marking the biggest opening day for a song in additionally dynamite peaked at number one on both the billboard global and billboard global excl. u.s. charts topping the latter for three consecutive weeks. the song charted in the top in different countries and topped the charts in hungary israel lithuania malaysia scotland singapore and south a standalone single dynamite was later included on bts fifth korean language album be released on novemberrun bts 방탄 bangtan also stylized as run bts is a south korean variety web series starring boy band bts. the series broadcasts weekly and has been offered for free viewing on v live since and on weverse since in each episode the band members play games or participate in a variety of activities that require them to complete challenges and sometimes carry out secret missions in order to earn prizes or receive one of run bts premiered on august 2015. most episodes aired on a tuesday except for when an episode of bts gayo was released instead. the series went on a year long hiatus after the january 2016 episode. season two premiered on january 2017. the series began consistent weekly airing as of the may 2017 episode. season three premiered on january 2019. in the broadcasting of new episodes was paused twice first for the airing of the bands documentary series break the silence in may and then for their new reality show bts in the soop which ran from the second week of august until the third week of october.bts is a seven member south korean boy band formed under record label big hit entertainment composed of three rappers rm suga and j hope and four vocalists jin jimin v and jungkook. the groups debut single album cool skool and subsequent extended play ep 2013 despite achieving little commercial success garnered them several new artist awards during late and early the group released its second ep skool luv affair and first studio album dark amp wild the following year to a quieter awards reception skool luv affairs lead single boy in luv received a nomination for best dance performance male at the mnet asian music awards while dark amp wild won a disc bonsang at the golden disc awards. bts third ep the most beautiful moment in life pt. 2015 won the disc bonsang at the golden disc awards while its lead single i need u received the best male dance award at the melon music awards. the groups follow up ep the most beautiful moment in life pt. 2015 received an album of the year nomination at the gaon chart music awards for the fourth quarter. bts first korean compilation album the most beautiful moment in life young forever earned bts their first daesang award for album of the year at the melon music awards and artist of the year at the mnet asian music awards. the albums second single fire received a best dance male nomination at the melon music second studio album wings won album of the year at the seoul music awards and album of the year 4th quarter at the gaon chart music awards. the albums lead single blood sweat amp tears received a nomination for song of the year at the mnet asian music awards. spring day a single taken from bts wings reissue you never walk alone won the group their first major song of the year award at the melon music awards. their fifth ep love yourself her and single dna earned bts the musician of the year title at the korean music awards while the ep itself received a disc daesang at the golden disc awards and album of the year 3rd quarter at the gaon chart music awards. bts third korean studio album love yourself tear won album of the year at both the melon music awards and the mnet asian music awards. the albums lead single fake love won both song of the year and best pop song at the korean music awards. their second korean compilation album love yourself answer garnered bts their third artist of the year at the mnet asian music awards and a disc daesang at the golden disc awards. at the melon music awards bts became the first group to win all daesangs at a year end award show with their sixth ep map of the soul persona and lead single boy with luv the group also won all four daesangs at the mnet asian music awards making them the artist with the most daesang wins in mnet asian music awards history and the artist with the most daesang wins overall. in bts further extended this record when they again won all daesangs at both the melon music awards and the mnet asian music have attained guinness world records including for the most twitter engagements and for the most viewed videomusic video on youtube in hours with dynamite. they have consecutively won billboards top social artist award since and are the only k pop group to win the top duogroup award at the billboard music awards. they are also the only k pop group to win the favorite duo or group poprock and favorite social artist awards at the american music awards. bts have also placed on the time in and are the youngest ever recipients of the south korean order of cultural merit. they became the first k pop act to ever be nominated for a grammy award in november when their song dynamite received a nomination for best popduo group performance at the annual grammy awards.south korean boy group bts has released nine studio albums one of which was reissued under a different title four compilation albums and six extended plays. in december bts surpassed million albums sold setting the record for reaching the million milestone in the shortest span of time years among all korean acts to have debuted since with million of those albums being sold in south korea in alone. as of april bts has sold over million physical albums in less than years making them the best selling korean act of all time.the group debuted in south korea on june 2013 with the single album cool skool. they made a comeback in september with an extended play in february bts released their second extended play skool luv affair. this marked the first time their album charted on the billboard world albums chart and japans oricon albums chart. a repackaged version of the album skool luv affair special addition was released in may bts released their first studio album dark amp wild in august it was their first album to break into the us top heatseekers chart. to wrap up bts made their japanese debut in december with first japanese studio album wake up. all of their japanese singles no more dream released on june boy in luv released on july and danger released on november made it into the top of the oricon albums chart as well as the japan hot groups third extended play the most beautiful moment in life pt. was released in april bts made a comeback with their fourth extended play the most beautiful moment in life pt. in november for the first time the group entered the billboard at with the ep. it also topped the billboard top heatseekers and world albums charts for weeks the most by a south korean act. their first compilation album the most beautiful moment in life young forever was released in may in september bts released their second japanese studio album entitled youth selling over copies in its first day of release. it became the groups first studio album to top both the daily and weekly oricon albums charts. to wrap up the group released their second studio album wings in october it debuted at on the billboard making it the highest ranking korean album ever on the chart at the time. its repackage album you never walk alone was released in february their fifth extended play love yourself her was then released in september the ep opened at number seven on the us billboard with album equivalent units making it the highest charting k pop album on the chart and biggest sales week of a k pop album to date.their third japanese studio album face yourself was released in april and debuted at number on the billboard with album equivalent units making it the third highest charting japanese album in the history of the chart. just one month later it became their first japanese album to be certified platinum by the riaj having sold over copies within that time. btss third korean studio album love yourself tear was released on may 2018 and debuted at number one on the us billboard becoming the groups highest charting album in a western market as well as the first k pop album to top the us albums chart and the highest charting album by an asian act. bts had the second best total album sales in the us in behind eminem and accounted for of the total albums sold in korea that year.in the group scored their third number one with map of the soul persona btss sixth extended play on the us billboard making them the first group since the beatles in to have three number one albums in less than a year. the ep became the best selling album in south koreas history selling nearly million copies in months. this record was later broken by their fourth korean studio album map of the soul which sold million copies in less than days of release and gave bts their fourth us billboard number one.bts rr bangtan sonyeondan also known as the bangtan boys is a seven member south korean boy band that began formation in and debuted in under big hit entertainment. the septet composed of rm jin suga j hope jimin v and jungkook co writes and co produces much of their own output. originally a hip hop group their musical style has evolved to include a wide range of genres. their lyrics often focused on personal and social commentary touch on the themes of mental health troubles of school age youth loss the journey towards loving oneself and individualism. their work features references to literature and psychological concepts and includes an alternative universe storyline. the group has released several albums and performed on several world debuting in with their single album cool skool bts released their first korean language studio album dark amp wild and japanese language studio album wake up in the groups second korean studio album wings was their first to sell one million copies in south korea. by bts crossed into the global music market leading the korean wave into the united states and breaking numerous sales records. they became the first korean group to receive a certification from the recording industry association of america riaa for their single mic drop as well as the first korean act to top the us billboard chart with their studio album love yourself tear bts also became the fastest group since the beatles to earn four us number one albums doing so in less than two years. love yourself answer was the first korean album certified platinum by the riaa. in bts became the first all south korean act to reach number one on the billboard global and us billboard hot with their single dynamite and remix of savage love laxed siren beat and with the release of life goes on became the first group to have two number one debuts on the hot sold over million albums on the gaon music chart bts is the best selling artist in south korean history and holds the best selling album in south korea with map of the soul bts was ranked at number on billboards top touring artists of the the only non english speaking act on the list. during their love yourself world tour bts became the first asian and first non english speaking act to headline and sell out wembley stadium and broke the record for the single highest grossing engagement in rose bowl stadium history. featured on times international cover as next generation leaders bts has also appeared in the magazines lists of the most influential people on the internet and the most influential people in the world where they were dubbed princes of pop. forbes korea named bts the most influential celebrities of korea in and and bts ranked in the forbes celebrity 2019 as one of the worlds top earning celebrities. as of bts is purportedly worth more than billion to south koreas economy each year or percent of the countrys gdp. they attract one in every foreign tourists that visited south korea and were cited as one of the key acts in boosting global music sales to billion in the establishment of their love myself anti violence campaign in partnership with unicef bts addressed the united nations and general assemblies and became the youngest ever recipients of the order of cultural merit from the president of south korea due to their contributions in spreading korean culture and language.kim seok jin born december 1992 also known by his stage name jin is a south korean singer songwriter and member of the south korean boy band bts since june kim was scouted for the group while in university and joined big hit entertainment as an actor eventually transitioning to a korean idol. kim has co written and released three solo tracks with bts awake epiphany and moon all of which have charted on south koreas gaon digital chart. in kim released his first independent song the digital track tonight. he also appeared on the hwarang the poet warrior youth soundtrack alongside bts member v. kim has received critical praise for his falsetto and emotional range as a from singing kim has also appeared as a host on multiple south korean music programs from to in he was awarded the fifth class hwagwan order of cultural merit by the president of south korea along with the other members of bts for his contributions to korean culture.kim tae hyung born december 1995 also known by his stage name v is a south korean singer songwriter and actor. he is a vocalist of the south korean boy group bts.park ji min born october 1995 better known mononymously as jimin is a south korean singer songwriter and dancer. in he debuted as a member of the south korean boy band bts under the record label big hit entertainment.this is a videography of the south korean group bts.