the manga series death note features an extensive cast of fictional characters designed by takeshi obata with their storylines created by tsugumi ohba. the story follows the novel of a character named light yagami who uses the notebook he found in order to cleanse the world of those humans which he deemed unfit for society. a team of professional investigators set out to find out the mysterious killer and arrest him and thus many other characters are introduced until light is eventually the fictional stories featured in the death note universe tsugumi ohba the story writer created characters that lived in a world featuring a notebook in which names written on it would lead to the ones named to die typically the cause of death being a heart attack when otherwise not specified. ohba chose names for his characters in a way that as he described seemed real but could not exist in the real world due to the fact that most of the characters were criminals or victims. light yagami the main character is depicted as the deadliest of them. some character details differ between the manga and its anime live action film and drama adaptations.death note stylized as death note is a japanese manga series written by tsugumi ohba and illustrated by takeshi obata. the story follows light yagami a teen genius who stumbles across a mysterious otherworldly notebook the death note which belonged to the shinigami ryuk and grants the user the supernatural ability to kill anyone whose name is written in its pages. the series centers around lights subsequent attempts to use the death note to carry out a worldwide massacre of individuals whom he deems morally unworthy of life to change the world into a utopian society without crime using the alias of a god like vigilante named kira and the subsequent efforts of an elite task force of law enforcement officers consisting of members of the japanese police force led by l an enigmatic international detective whose past is shrouded in mystery to apprehend him and end his reign of terror. death note ran in shueishas manga magazine weekly jump from december to may its chapters were collected in tankōbon 37 episode anime television series adaptation produced by madhouse and directed by araki was broadcast in japan on nippon television from october to june a light novel based on the series written by nisio isin was also released in additionally various video games have been published by konami for the nintendo ds. the series was adapted into three live action films released in japan in june november and february and a television drama in a miniseries titled death note new generation and a fourth film were released in an american film adaptation was released exclusively on netflix in august and a sequel is reportedly in the note media is licensed and released in north america by viz media with the exception of the video games and soundtracks. the episodes from the anime first appeared in north america as downloadable from ign before viz media licensed it. the series was aired on ytvs bionix anime block in canada and on adult swim in the united states with a dvd release following. the live action films briefly played in certain north american theaters in before receiving home video releases. as of april the death note manga had over million copies in circulation.ryuk japanese hepburn is a fictional character in the manga series death note created by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. he is a bored shinigami that drops a death note a notebook that allows the user to kill anyone simply by knowing their name and face into the human world in order to have relief from his boredom. it is picked up by light yagami a bright high school student who uses it in an attempt to create and rule a utopia cleansed of evil with him at the helm as a the anime adaptation ryuk is voiced by nakamura in japanese and by brian drummond in the english version. both actors reprise their roles for voicing the computer generated version of the character in the live action films with jun fukushima voicing the cg version in the live action television drama. in the musical ryuk was portrayed by yoshida. in the american live action film adaptation jason liles played the character in costume while willem dafoe provided the voice acting and facial motion capture.death note the musical is a musical based on the japanese manga series of the same name by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. the score is by frank wildhorn with lyrics by jack murphy and book by ivan for the musical was announced in december the musical had its world premiere on april 2015 at the nissay theatre in tokyo japan with a korean production opening the following july running through august at the opera house of seongnam arts center in seoul.death note is a episode anime series based on the manga series of the same name written by tsugumi ohba and illustrated by takeshi obata. it was directed by araki at madhouse and originally aired in japan on the nippon tv ntv network every tuesday from october 2006 to june 2007. the plot of the series primarily revolves around high school student light yagami who decides to rid the world of evil with the help of a supernatural notebook called a death note. this book causes the death of anyone whose name is written in it and is passed on to light by the shinigami ryuk after he becomes bored within the shinigami two hour directors cut compilation television film titled death note relight visions of a god aired on ntv a few months after the anime concluded. although advertised to be the complete conclusion the popularity of the series inspired the release of a second tv special titled death note relight ls successors nearly a year later. these specials recap the first and second arcs of the anime respectively with new scenes added to fill in any plot holes resulted from omitted 2007 viz media licensed the series for a bilingual release in north america. episodes of the series were officially available for download soon after they aired in japan according to viz this was significant because it the first time a well known japanese anime property made legally available to domestic audiences for download to own while the title still on japanese television. viz media began releasing these episodes via on may 2007. in addition to this downloadable release of a subtitled version of the series viz also acquired the rights for the home video release of both the subtitled and dubbed version of the series.on october 2007 death note premiered on cartoon networks adult swim. death note episodes were also added to adult swims streaming video service adult swim video on fridays before airing on television. on november 2008 death note began airing weekly at eastern standard time starting with episode rebirth on adult swim. in canada the series premiered on ytvs bionix block on october 2007. in october hong kong began airing the cantonese version of death note at saturday nights on tvb. on april 2008 death note premiered in australia where it aired on on mondays at pieces of theme music are used for the series. the first opening theme titled the world is performed by nightmare. nightmare also perform the first ending theme alumina arumina which reappears as the ending theme in the television film death note relight visions of a god and as an insert in episodes and both songs appear on their album the world ruler. the second opening theme from episode onwards is whats up and the second ending theme is billy zetsubō desperate billy which also appears as an insert in the tv special death note relight visions of a god. both themes are performed by maximum the hormone and appear on their album bu ikikaesu. the final episodes ending theme is coda death note by series co composer yoshihisa hirano. misas song performed by misas voice actress aya hirano is heard as an insert for episode the english version of the song is performed by the characters english voice actress shannon chan kent.death note is a american supernatural thriller film extremely loosely adapted from the japanese manga of the same name created by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. the film is directed by adam wingard and written by charles amp vlas parlapanides jeremy slater and kyle kilner. the film stars nat wolff lakeith stanfield margaret qualley shea whigham paul nakauchi jason liles and willem dafoe and follows the story of an american high school student named light turner who finds a mysterious supernatural notebook known as the death note which can kill anyone whose name is written in its film was screened at frightfest in london and was then released on netflix on august 2017 and received mixed to negative reviews. a sequel is currently in the works with greg russo attached to write the screenplay.mihael keehl japanese hepburn mihaeru universally referred to by the mononym mello mero is a fictional character in the manga series death note created by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. mello is introduced alongside near as a potential substitute for l. both mello and near were raised at wammys house an orphanage established by watari ls assistant. however mello refuses to work with near to capture a murderer dubbed kira. over the course of death note he joins the mafia obtains a death note causes the death of some people and dies before he can expose kiras identity. mello has also appeared in other media from the series including video games and light character of mello was created along with near to break the endless cycle of confrontations between the detective l and light yagami the man behind the persona kira. both mello and near were designed after l and were initially envisioned as twins and sons of l. ultimately this idea was dropped with their designs switched compared to the original concept. he is voiced in the japanese anime series by nozomu sasaki and in the english adaptation by david hurwitz. merchandise has been created for the character including plush dolls and action figures. mello has received mixed commentary from manga and anime publications.this is a list of the chapters of the japanese manga series death note written by tsugumi ohba and illustrated by takeshi obata. the individual chapters were originally serialized in shueishas weekly jump from december to may with chapters in all. the series primarily focuses on high school student light yagami who decides to use a supernatural notebook called the death note which kills anyone whose name is written in it to rid the world of note has been compiled into twelve in japan with the first being released on april 2004 and the twelfth on july 2006. in addition to these a guidebook for the manga death note how to read was also published on october 2006. the guidebook has information about the series with character profiles creator interviews and the pilot chapter that preceded death note. a one shot story special of death note was also released in february and is set two years after the original storys epilogue a second one shot was announced to be in development in april death note has been adapted into an anime with thirty seven episodes produced by nippon television and has three live action death note manga is licensed by viz media for north american distribution under their shonen jump advanced imprint. viz published the first volume on october 2005 and the last on july 2007. a hardcover version of volume was also released by viz on september 2008. viz published death note how to read on february 2008 and collected the death note volumes along with death note how to read into a box set on october 2008. on october 2016 all original manga volumes and the february one shot were released in a single all in one edition consisting of pages in a single book. the all in one edition was released in english on september 2017 resulting in the february one shot being released in english for the first time. a standalone death note special one shot written by ohba and drawn by obata was published in february collected volume titled death note short stories death desu tanpenshū which includes the february one shot chapter the death note special one shot re titled a kira chapter a kira hen the series pilot chapter and the l the wammys housel one day one shot chapters and more was released on february 2021.l lawliet japanese hepburn eru known mononymously as l is a fictional character in the manga series death note created by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. he is an enigmatic mysterious and highly esteemed international consulting detective whose true identity and background is kept a secret communicating with law enforcement agencies only through his equally inexplicable handlerassistant watari who serves as his official liaison with the authorities. though his past is shrouded in mystery he has gained a reputation as arguably the worlds greatest detectivecriminal the series he observes and spies on the activities of the series protagonist light yagami a high school genius. l attempts to expose light as the infamous serial killer kira who is responsible for massacring high profile criminals worldwide through apparently supernatural means. as the series progresses the psychological mind game of cat and mouse between l and light intensifies and each becomes bent on uncovering the others true identity through a series of intricate ploys and schemes before their cover is blown. throughout the series he serves as an ideological and visual foil to the anime adaptation he is voiced by kappei yamaguchi in japanese and by alessandro juliani in english. he is portrayed by kenichi matsuyama in the live action film series by kento yamazaki in the tv drama and by lakeith stanfield in the american film.death note desu is a japanese supernatural thriller film based on the manga series of the same title by tsugumi ohba and takeshi obata. it was followed by a sequel death note the last name released in the same year. the films primarily center on a tokyo college student who attempts to change the world into a utopian society without crime by committing a world wide massacre of criminals and people whom he deems morally unworthy of life through a supernatural notebook that kills anyone whose name is written in the pages while being hunted down by an elite task force of law enforcement officers within tokyo led by an enigmatic international two films were directed by kaneko produced by nippon television and distributed by warner bros. pictures japan. the film was licensed by viz pictures warner spin off film directed by hideo nakata and titled l change the world was released on february 2008. another sequel death note light up the new world was released in october