radical feminism is a perspective within feminism that calls for a radical reordering of society in which male supremacy is eliminated in all social and economic contexts while recognizing that womens experiences are also affected by other social divisions such as in race class and sexual orientation. radical feminists view society as fundamentally a patriarchy in which men dominate and oppress women. radical feminists seek to abolish the patriarchy as one front in a struggle to liberate everyone from an unjust society by challenging existing social norms and institutions. this struggle includes opposing the sexual objectification of women raising public awareness about such issues as rape and violence against women challenging the concept of gender roles and challenging what radical feminists see as a racialized and gendered capitalism that characterizes the united states and many other countries. according to shulamith firestone in the dialectic of sex the case for feminist revolution [t]he end goal of feminist revolution must be unlike that of the first feminist movement not just the elimination of male privilege but of the sex distinction itself genital differences between human beings would no longer matter culturally. while radical feminists believe that differences in genitalia and secondary sex characteristics should not matter culturally or politically they also maintain that womens special role in reproduction should be recognized and accommodated without penalty in the workplace and some have argued compensation should be offered for this socially essential work.early radical feminism arising within second wave feminism in the typically viewed patriarchy as a transhistorical phenomenon prior to or deeper than other sources of oppression not only the oldest and most universal form of domination but the primary form and the model for all others. later politics derived from radical feminism ranged from cultural feminism to more syncretic politics that placed issues of class economics etc. on a par with patriarchy as sources of oppression.radical feminists locate the root cause of womens oppression in patriarchal gender relations as opposed to legal systems as in liberal feminism or class conflict as in anarchist feminism socialist feminism and marxist feminism.the history of feminism comprises the narratives chronological or thematic of the movements and ideologies which have aimed at equal rights for women. while feminists around the world have differed in causes goals and intentions depending on time culture and country most western feminist historians assert that all movements that work to obtain womens rights should be considered feminist movements even when they did not or do not apply the term to themselves. some other historians limit the term feminist to the modern feminist movement and its progeny and use the label protofeminist to describe earlier movements.modern western feminist history is conventionally split into three time periods or waves each with slightly different aims based on prior wave feminism of the and early centuries focused on overturning legal inequalities particularly addressing issues of womens wave feminism broadened debate to include cultural inequalities gender norms and the role of women in wave feminism refers to diverse strains of feminist activity seen by third wavers themselves both as a continuation of the second wave and as a response to its perceived failuresalthough the waves construct has been commonly used to describe the history of feminism the concept has also been criticized by non anglo saxon feminists for ignoring and erasing the history between the waves by choosing to focus solely on a few famous figures on the perspective of a white bourgeois woman and on popular events and for being racist and colonialist.third wave feminism is an iteration of the feminist movement. it began in the united states in the early and continued until the rise of the fourth wave in the born in the and as members of generation x and grounded in the civil rights advances of the second wave third wave feminists embraced individualism and diversity and sought to redefine what it meant to be a feminist. the third wave saw the emergence of new feminist currents and theories such as intersectionality sex positivity vegetarian ecofeminism transfeminism and postmodern feminism. according to feminist scholar elizabeth evans the confusion surrounding what constitutes third wave feminism is in some respects its defining feature.the third wave is traced to the emergence of the riot grrrl feminist punk subculture in olympia washington in the early and to anita hills televised testimony in to an all male all white senate judiciary committee that clarence thomas nominated for and eventually confirmed to the supreme court of the united states had sexually harassed her. the term third wave is credited to rebecca walker who responded to thomass appointment to the supreme court with an article in ms. magazine becoming the third wave she wrote so i write this as a plea to all women especially women of my generation let thomas confirmation serve to remind you as it did me that the fight is far from over. let this dismissal of a womans experience move you to anger. turn that outrage into political power. do not vote for them unless they work for us. do not have sex with them do not break bread with them do not nurture them if they dont prioritize our freedom to control our bodies and our lives. i am not a post feminism feminist. i am the third sought to establish that third wave feminism was not just a reaction but a movement in itself because the feminist cause had more work ahead. the term intersectionality to describe the idea that women experience layers of oppression caused for example by gender race and class had been introduced by williams crenshaw in and it was during the third wave that the concept flourished. as feminists came online in the late and early and reached a global audience with blogs and e zines they broadened their goals focusing on abolishing gender role stereotypes and expanding feminism to include women with diverse racial and cultural identities.postcolonial feminism is a form of feminism that developed as a response to feminism focusing solely on the experiences of women in western cultures and former colonies. postcolonial feminism seeks to account for the way that racism and the long lasting political economic and cultural effects of colonialism affect non white non western women in the postcolonial world. postcolonial feminism originated in the as a critique of feminist theorists in developed countries pointing out the universalizing tendencies of mainstream feminist ideas and argues that women living in non western countries are misrepresented.postcolonial feminism argues that by using the term woman as a universal group women are then only defined by their gender and not by social class race ethnicity or sexual preference. postcolonial feminists also work to incorporate the ideas of indigenous and other third world feminist movements into mainstream western feminism. third world feminism stems from the idea that feminism in third world countries is not imported from the first world but originates from internal ideologies and socio cultural factors.postcolonial feminism is sometimes criticized by mainstream feminism which argues that postcolonial feminism weakens the wider feminist movement by dividing it. it is also often criticized for its western bias which will be discussed further below.liberal feminism also called mainstream feminism is a main branch of by its focus on achieving gender equality through political and legal reform within the framework of liberal democracy. as the oldest of the big three schools of feminist thought liberal feminism has its roots in century first wave feminism that focused particularly on womens suffrage and access to education and that was associated with century liberalism and progressivism. traditional liberal feminism has a strong focus on political and legal reforms aiming to give women equal rights and opportunities. liberal feminists argue that society holds the false belief that women are by nature less intellectually and physically capable than men thus it tends to discriminate against women in the academy the forum and the marketplace. liberal feminists believe that female subordination is rooted in a set of customary and legal constraints that blocks womens entrance to and success in the so called public world and strive for sexual equality via political and legal reform. liberal feminism works within the structure of mainstream society to integrate women into that structure.liberal feminism is also called mainstream feminism reformist feminism egalitarian feminism or historically bourgeois feminism among other names. as one of the big three schools of feminist thought liberal feminism is often contrasted with socialistmarxist feminism and with radical feminism. liberal feminism and mainstream feminism are very broad terms frequently taken to encompass all feminism that isnt radical or revolutionary socialistmarxist and that instead pursues equality through political legal and social reform within a liberal democratic framework as such liberal feminists may subscribe to a range of different feminist beliefs and political ideologies within the democratic spectrum from the centre left to the centre right. the broader liberal feminist tradition includes numerous newer and often diverging sub fields such as equality feminism social feminism equity feminism and difference feminism but liberal feminism also remains a tradition of its own nordic state to the liberal tradition.mainstream liberal feminism places great emphasis on the public world and typically supports laws and regulations that promote gender equality and ban practices that are discriminatory towards women mainstream liberal feminists may also support social measures to reduce material inequality within a liberal democratic framework. inherently pragmatic in orientation liberal feminists have emphasized building far reaching support for feminist causes among both women and men and among the political centre the government and legislatures. while rooted in first wave feminism and traditionally focused on political and legal reform the broader liberal feminist tradition may include parts of subsequent waves of feminism especially third wave feminism and fourth wave feminism. the sunflower and the color gold became widely used symbols of liberal feminism and especially womens suffrage from thesecond wave feminism was a period of feminist activity and though it began in the united states in the early it lasted roughly two decades. it quickly spread across the western world with an aim to increase equality for women by gaining more than just first wave feminism focused mainly on suffrage and overturning legal obstacles to gender equality e.g. voting rights and property rights second wave feminism broadened the debate to include a wider range of issues sexuality family the workplace reproductive rights de facto inequalities and official legal inequalities. it was a movement that was focused on critiquing the patriarchal or male dominated institutions and cultural practices throughout society. second wave feminism also drew attention to the issues of domestic violence and marital rape engendered rape crisis centers and womens shelters and brought about changes in custody laws and divorce law. feminist owned bookstores credit unions and restaurants were among the key meeting spaces and economic engines of the movement.the term second wave feminism itself was brought into common parlance by journalist martha lear in a new york times magazine article in march titled the second feminist wave what do these women she wrote proponents call it the second feminist wave the first having ebbed after the glorious victory of suffrage and disappeared finally into the great sandbar of togetherness.many historians view the second wave feminist era in america as ending in the early with the intra feminism disputes of the feminist sex wars over issues such as sexuality and pornography which ushered in the era of third wave feminism in the earlyfeminism in india is a set of movements aimed at defining establishing and defending equal political economic and social rights and opportunities for women in india. it is the pursuit of womens rights within the society of india. like their feminist counterparts all over the world feminists in india seek gender equality the right to work for equal wages the right to equal access to health and education and equal political rights. indian feminists also have fought against culture specific issues within indias patriarchal society such as inheritance history of feminism in india can be divided into three phases the first phase beginning in the mid century initiated when reformists began to speak in favor of women rights by making reforms in education customs involving women the second phase from to indian independence when gandhi incorporated womens movements into the quit india movement and independent womens organisations began to emerge and finally the third phase post independence which has focused on fair treatment of women at home after marriage in the work force and right to political parity.despite the progress made by indian feminist movements women living in modern india still face many issues of discrimination. indias patriarchal culture has made the process of gaining land ownership rights and access to education challenging. in the past two decades there has also emerged a trend of sex selective abortion. to indian feminists these are seen as injustices worth struggling against.as in the west there has been some criticism of feminist movements in india. they have especially been criticized for focusing too much on privileged women and neglecting the needs and representation of poorer or lower caste women. this has led to the creation of caste specific feminist organizations and movements.black feminism is a philosophy that centers on the idea that black women are inherently valuable that womens] liberation is a necessity not as an adjunct to somebody elses but because our need as human persons for autonomy.black feminist theory contends that black women have an acute understanding of the negative impacts of sexism racism and class discrimination. furthermore race gender and class discrimination are all aspects of the same system of hierarchy namely the imperialist white supremacist capitalist patriarchy. due to their inter dependency they combine to create something more than experiencing racism and sexism independently. the experience of being a black woman then cannot be grasped in terms of being black or of being a woman but must be illuminated via intersectionality a term coined by legal scholar crenshaw in to describe that each concept being black and being female should be considered independently while understanding that intersecting identities deepen and reinforce one another.a black feminist lens in the united states was first employed by black women to make sense of how white supremacy and patriarchy interacted to inform the particular experiences of enslaved black women. black activists and intellectuals formed organizations such as the national association of coloured women nacw and the national council of negro women ncnw. black feminism rose to prominence in the as the civil rights movement excluded women from leadership positions and the mainstream feminist movement largely focused its agenda on issues that predominately impacted middle class white women. from the to black feminists formed groups that addressed the role of black women in black nationalism gay liberation and second wave feminism. in the the anita hill controversy brought black feminism into the mainstream. black feminist theories reached a wider audience in the as a result of social media advocacy.proponents of black feminism argue that black women are positioned within structures of power in fundamentally different ways than white women. in the early century the tag white feminist gained currency to criticize feminist who avoid issues of intersectionality. critics of black feminism argue that divisions along the lines of race or gender weaken the strength of the overall feminist movement and anti racist movements.among the notions that evolved out of the black feminist movement are alice walkers womanism and historical revisionism with an increased focus on black women. angela davis bell hooks williams crenshaw and patricia hill collins have emerged as leading academics on black feminism while black celebrities have encouraged mainstream discussion of black feminism.feminism is a range of social movements political movements and ideologies that aim to define and establish the political economic personal and social equality of the sexes. feminism incorporates the position that societies prioritize the male point of view and that women are treated unjustly within those societies. efforts to change that include fighting against gender stereotypes and establishing educational professional and interpersonal opportunities and outcomes for women that are equal to those for movements have campaigned and continue to campaign for womens rights including the right to vote hold public office work earn equal pay own property receive education enter contracts have equal rights within marriage and maternity leave. feminists have also worked to ensure access to legal abortions and social integration and to protect women and girls from rape sexual harassment and domestic violence. changes in female dress standards and acceptable physical activities for females have often been part of feminist movements.some scholars consider feminist campaigns to be a main force behind major historical societal changes for womens rights particularly in the west where they are near universally credited with achieving womens suffrage gender neutral language reproductive rights for women including access to contraceptives and abortion and the right to enter into contracts and own property. although feminist advocacy is and has been mainly focused on womens rights some feminists argue for the inclusion of mens liberation within its aims because they believe that men are also harmed by traditional gender roles. feminist theory which emerged from feminist movements aims to understand the nature of gender inequality by examining womens social roles and lived experience it has developed theories in a variety of disciplines in order to respond to issues concerning gender.numerous feminist movements and ideologies have developed over the years and represent different viewpoints and aims. traditionally since the century first wave liberal feminism that sought political and legal equality through reforms within a liberal democratic framework was contrasted with labor based proletarian womens movements that over time developed into socialist and marxist feminism based on class struggle theory. since the both of these traditions are also contrasted with radical feminism that arose from the radical wing of second wave feminism and that calls for a radical reordering of society to eliminate male supremacy together liberal socialist and radical feminism are sometimes called the big three schools of feminist thought. since the late century many newer forms of feminisms have emerged. some forms of feminism have been criticized for taking into account only white middle class college educated heterosexual or cisgender perspectives. these criticisms have led to the creation of ethnically specific or multicultural forms of feminism such as black feminism and intersectional feminism.