the japanese manga fullmetal alchemist was written and illustrated by hiromu arakawa. it has been serialized in square enixs monthly gangan since its august issue published on july 2001 and concluded on its july issue published in june with a total of chapters. the plot follows the adventures of two alchemist brothers named edward and alphonse elric. they are striving to find the legendary philosophers stone so that they may recover parts of their bodies that they lost in an attempt to bring their mother back to life. therefore edward joins the state military and discovers that several members of the military are also attempting to get the enix collected the chapters in form. the first volume was released on january 2002 and the last volume was released on november 2010. a few chapters have been rereleased in japan in two extra number magazines and fullmetal alchemist the first attack which features the first nine chapters of the manga as well as other side stories. on july 2011 square enix started republishing the series in kanzenban format. viz media is releasing english language editions of the manga in north america. the first volume was released on may 2005 and the last one was officially released on december 2011. on june 2011 viz started publishing the series in omnibus format featuring three volumes in one.the animation studio bones adapted the manga into two animated adaptations. the first ran for episodes with several changes made to the manga and it was followed by a film sequel in in april bones started airing a new anime adaptation of the manga entitled fullmetal alchemist brotherhood for the north american release.fullmetal alchemist japanese hepburn hagane no renkinjutsushi lit. the steel alchemist is a japanese manga series written and illustrated by hiromu arakawa. it was serialized in square enixs monthly gangan manga magazine between july and june the publisher later collected the individual chapters into twenty seven volumes. the steampunk world of fullmetal alchemist is primarily styled after the european industrial revolution. set in a fictional universe in which alchemy is one of the advanced natural techniques revolved around scientific laws of equivalent exchange the series follows the adventures of two alchemist brothers named edward and alphonse elric who are searching for the philosophers stone to restore their bodies after a failed attempt to bring their mother back to life using manga was published and localized in english by viz media in north america madman entertainment in australasia and chuang yi in singapore. yen press also has the rights for the digital release of the volumes in north america due to the series being a square enix title. it has been adapted into two anime television series two animated films all animated by bones studio and light novels. funimation dubbed the television series films and video games. the series has generated original video animations video games supplementary books a collectible card game and a variety of action figures and other merchandise. a live action film based on the series was also released in manga has sold over volumes worldwide making it one of the best selling manga series. the english release of the mangas first volume was the top selling graphic novel during reviewers from several media conglomerations had positive comments on the series particularly for its character development action scenes symbolism and philosophical references.the fullmetal alchemist manga and anime series feature an extensive cast of fictional characters created by hiromu arakawa. the story is set in a fictional universe within the century in which alchemy is one of the most advanced scientific techniques. although they basically start the same the first anime midway through its run begins to differ greatly from the original manga characters that are killed early on in the manga survive to the end of the first anime and vice versa. however the events of the second anime fullmetal alchemist brotherhood faithfully follow those from the manga.the story follows the adventures of two alchemist brothers named edward and alphonse elric. while trying to revive their mother the brothers lost parts of their bodies with alphonses soul being contained in a suit of armor and edward replacing his right arm and left leg with two sets of automail a type of advanced prosthetic limb. advised by roy mustang an alchemist from the state military edward becomes a state alchemist and starts traveling with alphonse through the country of amestris in order to find a way to recover their bodies. in their search they hear of the philosophers stone a powerful alchemy artifact that the brothers can use to recover their creating the series arakawa took her inspiration from several experiences in her childhood including her parents jobs and the manga she used to read. several types of merchandising have also been released based on the characters from the series. reviewers from manga anime and other media have also commented on the characters. most of them have praised their development in the story as well as arakawas artwork.fullmetal alchemist is an anime series adapted from the manga of the same title by hiromu arakawa. set in a fictional universe in which alchemy is one of the most advanced scientific techniques the story follows two alchemist brothers named edward and alphonse elric who want to recover parts of their bodies lost in an attempt to bring their mother back to life through by bones and directed by seiji mizushima fullmetal alchemist was first aired on the tokyo broadcasting system tbs in japan from october 2003 to october 2004. it later aired on cartoon networks adult swim block in the united states from november 2004 through march 2006. a theatrical release titled fullmetal alchemist the movie conqueror of shamballa a sequel to the television series premiered in japanese theaters on july 2005 and it premiered in the u.s. on august 2006. a series of five original video animations ovas were also released. the majority of these ovas are side stories and do not expand on the plot. in a new anime named fullmetal alchemist brotherhood for the english release started broadcast on tv tokyo being directed by yasuhiro irie.the first series has been released in a series of thirteen dvds from december 2003 to january 2005 in japan. funimation also released the same series of dvds from february 2005 to september 2006 in the united states. mvm had released the first eight volumes in the united kingdom however funimation gave the rights over to revelation films. in march a dvd featuring the ovas was released in japan with the name of fullmetal alchemist premium collection. funimation acquired and dubbed the premium collection which was released on august 2009. during january from bones released a dvd box archives of the anime. it includes the first anime of episodes the film the cd soundtracks and guidebooks from the series.eight pieces of theme music are used for the episodes four opening themes and four ending themes. each of the theme songs was performed by artists under sony music entertainment japans label whose anime distribution unit aniplex handled the production and music production for the series. the music score was composed and arranged by michiru oshima. melissa by porno graffitti is used during episodes ready steady go by larc en ciel is used during episodes undo by cool joke is used during episodes and rewrite by asian kung fu generation is used for the last episodes. for episode the ending is melissa by porno graffitti. kesenai tsumi indelible sin by nana kitade is used for episodes tobira no e beyond the door by yellow generation is used for episodes episodes use motherland by crystal kay for the ending and i will by sowelu is used for episodes all episodes that originally opened with melissa and undo had ready steady go shown in place of those songs on cartoon networks adult swim and ytvs bionix. the dvd releases from funimation include all openings in their original places and format.fullmetal alchemist brotherhood known in japan as alchemist of steel fullmetal alchemist フルメタルアルケミスト hagane no renkinjutsushi furumetaru arukemisuto is the second independent anime adaptation developed by bones from the fullmetal alchemist manga series by hiromu arakawa. yasuhiro irie worked as director and hiroshi as writer. the series follows the story of two alchemist brothers edward and alphonse elric who want to restore their bodies after a disastrous failed attempt to bring their mother back to life through alchemy. unlike the first anime which added original elements to the story the second series follows the manga. the series comprises a total of episodes and four original video series premiered on april 2009 on mbs tbss sunday pm jst anime timeblock replacing mobile suit gundam it received its english language premiere five days later on animax asia with japanese audio and english subtitles. anime distributor funimation streamed english subtitled episodes four days after the japanese air dates on both its website and its youtube channel. funimation suspended streaming of the series for a few weeks in may following the accidental leak of an episode of one piece from its servers before it had aired in japan. all episodes were also available on american subscription service hulu showing days after their original airing as well as via australias madman entertainment. english dubbed episodes of the show started on american cable channel adult swim from february 2010 onwards as part of their saturday anime block.aniplex began releasing the series in dvd and blu ray on august 2009. the first one contains two episodes and an original video animation ova. three more ovas were included in the fifth ninth and thirteenth volumes alongside four episodes. other volumes feature four episodes and no ovas. a total of sixteen volumes were released with the last one on november 2010. funimation released the episodes on blu ray and dvd in five volumes each of thirteen episodes on may 2010.brotherhoods music composer is akira senju. ten pieces of theme music were used in brotherhood. the respective opening and ending themes for the first episodes are again by yui and uso lit. lie by sid. from episode the respective opening and ending themes are hologram by nico touches the walls and let it out by miho fukuhara. from episode the respective opening and ending themes are golden time lover by sukima switch and tsunaida te lit. tied hands by lilb. from episode the respective opening and ending themes are period by chemistry and shunkan sentimental shunkan senchimentaru lit. sentimental moment by scandal. from episodes the respective opening and ending themes are rain rein by sid and ray of light by shoko nakagawa. while episodes and do not use opening themes they use rain and hologram respectively for the endings.fullmetal alchemist the sacred star of milos japanese 嘆きの丘（ミロス）の聖なる星 hepburn hagane no renkinjutsushi mirosu no sei naru hoshi is the second japanese animated theatrical film based on hiromu arakawas fullmetal alchemist franchise released in the film was first announced after the airing of the final episode of fullmetal alchemist brotherhood. the japanese premiere was on july 2011.
funimation entertainment has licensed the film and released it in the united states in the film was distributed by eleven arts for north america showing at more than theaters. in the uk manga entertainment screened the film at bfi south bank on june 2012 followed by a home video release on september 2012.scar japanese hepburn also known as scarred man kizu no otoko is a fictional character from the fullmetal alchemist manga series and its adaptations created by hiromu arakawa. scar is introduced as a villain who targets alchemists working for the state military from the fictional country of amestris. scar hails from the region of ishval whose people were almost exterminated in a previous civil war against the state military most notably their alchemists. his alias is derived from the prominent x shaped scar that decorates his brow with his birth name being unknown. as the series continues scars backstory is further explored and he questions his motives eventually joining the side of the amestrian state was created by arakawa in order to represent the continuous encounter that happened between people from hokkaido and the ainu. therefore she regards scar as a complex character as his hatred spanned from the ishvals civil war. similarly his character was received positively by publications from manga and anime who find him as an atypical villain in the series.fullmetal alchemist brotherhood japanese fullmetal alchemist hepburn hagane no renkinjutsushi is a japanese anime television series adapted from the fullmetal alchemist manga by hiromu arakawa. produced by bones the series is directed by yasuhiro irie and written by hiroshi fullmetal alchemist brotherhood is the second anime television series based on fullmetal alchemist the first being fullmetal alchemist. unlike the previous adaptation brotherhood is an almost adaptation directly following the original events of the manga. the series ran for episodes on from april to july series was first licensed in north america by funimation and was broadcast english dubbed on adult swim from february to september funimation lost the rights to the series in march and the series was then transferred to aniplex of america.fullmetal alchemist japanese hepburn hagane no renkinjutsushi is a japanese anime television series adapted from the manga of the same name written and illustrated by hiromu arakawa. comprising episodes it was co produced by the animation studio bones mainichi broadcasting system mbs and aniplex and directed by seiji mizushima. it was broadcast on mbs in japan from october to october in the manga the series follows the adventures of brothers edward and alphonse elric who are searching for the philosophers stone so they can regain the bodies they lost in a failed attempt to bring their dead mother back to life. during production arakawa requested an original ending that differed from the manga leading to the series deviating into an original plot halfway through. the first series ended with a sequel film conqueror of shamballa released in a second anime series fullmetal alchemist brotherhood which adapted the entire story of the manga was broadcast infullmetal alchemist is a manga series created by hiromu alchemist may also refer to fullmetal alchemist tv series the first televised adaptation of the alchemist brotherhood the second televised adaptation of the alchemist film a live action film adapted from the manga