gender equality also known as sexual equality or equality of the sexes is the state of equal ease of access to resources and opportunities regardless of gender including economic participation and decision making and the state of valuing different behaviors aspirations and needs equally regardless of gender. gender equality is the goal while gender neutrality and gender equity are practices and ways of thinking that help in achieving the goal. gender parity which is used to measure gender balance in a given situation can aid in achieving gender equality but is not the goal in and of itself. gender equality is more than equal representation it is strongly tied to womens rights and often requires policy changes. as of the global movement for gender equality has not incorporated the proposition of genders besides women and men or gender identities outside of the gender says gender equality means that women and men and girls and boys enjoy the same rights resources opportunities and protections. it does not require that girls and boys or women and men be the same or that they be treated exactly alike.on a global scale achieving gender equality also requires eliminating harmful practices against women and girls including sex trafficking femicide wartime sexual violence gender wage gap and other oppression tactics. unfpa stated that despite many international agreements affirming their human rights women are still much more likely than men to be poor and illiterate. they have less access to property ownership credit training and employment. they are far less likely than men to be politically active and far more likely to be victims of domestic violence.as of gender equality is the fifth of seventeen sustainable development goals sdg of the united nations. gender inequality is measured annually by the united nations development programmes human development reports.a gender role also known as a sex role is a social role encompassing a range of behaviors and attitudes that are generally considered acceptable appropriate or desirable for a person based on that persons biological or perceived sex. gender roles are usually centered on conceptions of masculinity and femininity although there are exceptions and variations. the specifics regarding these gendered expectations may vary substantially among cultures while other characteristics may be common throughout a range of cultures. there is ongoing debate as to what extent gender roles and their variations are biologically determined and to what extent they are socially roles influence a wide range of human behavior often including the clothing a person chooses the profession a person pursues and the personal relationships a person groups most notably the feminist movements have led efforts to change aspects of prevailing gender roles that they believe are oppressive or term gender role was first used by john money and colleagues in during the course of his study of intersex individuals to describe the manners in which these individuals expressed that they were male or female even though no clear biological assignment existed.third gender or third sex is a concept in which individuals are categorized either by themselves or by society as neither man nor woman. it is also a social category present in societies that recognize three or more genders. the term third is usually understood to mean other some anthropologists and sociologists have described fourth fifth and some state of personally identifying as or being identified by society as a man a woman or other is usually also defined by the individuals gender identity and gender role in the particular culture in which they live. not all cultures have strictly defined gender roles.in different cultures a third or fourth gender may represent very different things. to native hawaiians and tahitians is an intermediate state between man and woman or a person of indeterminate gender. some traditional native americans of the southwestern us acknowledge a spectrum of four genders feminine woman masculine woman feminine man and masculine man. the term third gender has also been used to describe the hijras of india who have gained legal identity faafafine of polynesia and sworn virgins.while found in a number of non western cultures concepts of third fourth and some gender roles are still somewhat new to mainstream western culture and conceptual thought. the concept is most likely to be embraced in the modern lgbt or queer subcultures. while mainstream western scholars notably anthropologists who have tried to write about the south asian hijras or the native american gender variant and two spirit people have often sought to understand the term third gender solely in the language of the modern lgbt community other scholars especially indigenous scholars stress that mainstream scholars lack of cultural understanding and context has led to widespread misrepresentation of third gender people as well as misrepresentations of the cultures in question including whether or not this concept actually applies to these cultures at all.a gender symbol is a pictogram or glyph used to represent biological sex and gender in biology or medicine in genealogy or in the sociological fields of gender politics lgbt subculture and identity his mantissa plantarum and mantissa plantarum altera carl linnaeus regularly used ♀ and briefly subsequently for male female and hybrid plants respectively.pictograms used to indicate male and female public toilets became widely used beginning in thegender dysphoria gd is the distress a person feels due to a mismatch between their gender identity and their sex assigned at birth. the diagnostic label gender identity disorder gid was used until with the release of the dsm the condition was renamed to remove the stigma associated with the term disorder.people with gender dysphoria commonly identify as transgender. gender nonconformity is not the same thing as gender dysphoria and does not always lead to dysphoria or distress. according to the american psychiatric association the critical element of gender dysphoria is clinically significant distress.evidence from studies of twins suggests that gender dysphoria is caused by genetic factors as well as environmental ones. treatment for gender dysphoria may involve supporting the person through changes in gender expression. hormone therapy or surgery may be used to assist such changes. treatment may also include counseling or psychotherapy.some researchers and transgender people support declassification of the condition because they say the diagnosis pathologizes gender variance and reinforces the binary model of gender.non binary also spelled nonbinary or genderqueer is a spectrum of gender identities that are not exclusively masculine or ‌identities that are outside the gender binary. non binary identities can fall under the transgender umbrella since many non binary people identify with a gender that is different from their assigned sex. another term for non binary is enby from the abbreviation nb.non binary people may identify as having two or more genders being bigender or trigender having no gender agender nongendered genderless genderfree or neutrois moving between genders or having a fluctuating gender identity genderfluid being third gender or other gendered a category that includes those who do not place a name to their gender.gender identity is separate from sexual or romantic orientation and non binary people have a variety of sexual orientations just as cisgender people do.non binary gender identities are not associated with a specific gender expression such as androgyny. non binary people as a group have a wide variety of gender expressions and some may reject gender identities altogether. some non binary people are medically treated for gender dysphoria with surgery or hormones as trans men and women often are.gender is the range of characteristics pertaining to and differentiating between femininity and masculinity. depending on the context these characteristics may include biological sex sex based social structures i.e. gender roles or gender identity. most cultures use a gender binary having two genders boysmen and girlswomen those who exist outside these groups fall under the umbrella term non binary or genderqueer. some societies have specific genders besides man and woman such as the hijras of south asia these are often referred to as third genders and fourth genders john money introduced the terminological distinction between biological sex and gender as a role in before his work it was uncommon to use the word gender to refer to anything but grammatical categories. however moneys meaning of the word did not become widespread until the when feminist theory embraced the concept of a distinction between biological sex and the social construct of gender. today the distinction is followed in some contexts especially the social sciences and documents written by the world health organization who.in other contexts including some areas of the social sciences gender includes sex or replaces it. for instance in non human animal research gender is commonly used to refer to the biological sex of the animals. this change in the meaning of gender can be traced to the in the us food and drug administration fda started to use gender instead of sex. later in the fda reversed its position and began using sex as the biological classification and gender as a persons self representation as male or female or how that person is responded to by social institutions based on the individuals gender presentation.the social sciences have a branch devoted to gender studies. other sciences such as sexology and neuroscience are also interested in the subject. the social sciences sometimes approach gender as a social construct and gender studies particularly do while research in the natural sciences investigates whether biological differences in females and males influence the development of gender in humans both inform debate about how far biological differences influence the formation of gender identity. in some english literature there is also a trichotomy between biological sex psychological gender and social gender role. this framework first appeared in a feminist paper on transsexualism ingender identity is the personal sense of ones own gender. gender identity can correlate with a persons assigned sex at birth or can differ from it. gender expression typically reflects a persons gender identity but this is not always the case. while a person may express behaviors attitudes and appearances consistent with a particular gender role such expression may not necessarily reflect their gender identity. the term gender identity was originally coined by robert j. stoller in societies have a set of gender categories that can serve as the basis of a persons self identity in relation to other members of society. in most societies there is a basic division between gender attributes assigned to males and females a gender binary to which most people adhere and which includes expectations of masculinity and femininity in all aspects of sex and gender biological sex gender identity and gender expression. some people do not identify with some or all of the aspects of gender assigned to their biological sex some of those people are transgender non binary or genderqueer. some societies have third gender identity is usually formed by age three. after age three it is extremely difficult to change gender identity. both biological and social factors have been suggested to influence its formation.the distinction between sex and gender differentiates a persons sex the anatomy of an individuals reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics from that persons gender which can refer to either social roles based on the sex of the person gender role or personal identification of ones own gender based on an internal awareness gender identity. in some circumstances an individuals assigned sex and gender do not align and the person may be transgender. in other cases an individual may have biological sex characteristics that complicate sex assignment and the person may be ordinary speech sex and gender are often used interchangeably. some dictionaries and academic disciplines give them different definitions while others do not. some languages such as german or finnish have no separate words for sex and gender and the distinction has to be made through john money introduced the terminological distinction between biological sex and gender as a role in before his work academic use of the word gender was mostly confined to grammatical categories.among scientists the term sex differences as compared to gender differences is typically applied to sexually dimorphic traits that are hypothesized to be evolved consequences of sexual selection.