timeline of k pop at billboard is a history of k pop as recorded by billboard billboard charts and billboard k town an online magazine column presented by billboard on its billboard.com site that reports on k pop music artists concerts chart information and news events. it is followed by later history at timeline of k pop at billboard in thek pop short for korean popular music is a genre of popular music originating in south korea. it is influenced by styles and genres from around the world such as experimental rock jazz gospel hip hop rampb reggae electronic dance folk country and classical on top of its traditional korean music roots. the more modern form of the genre emerged with the formation of one of the earliest k pop groups seo taiji and boys in their experimentation with different styles and genres of music and integration of foreign musical elements helped reshape and modernize south koreas contemporary music scene.modern k pop idol culture began with the boy band h.o.t. in as k pop grew into a subculture that amassed enormous fandoms of teenagers and young adults. after a slump in early k pop from tvxq and boa started a new generation of k pop idols that broke the music genre into the neighboring japanese market and continue to popularize k pop internationally today. with the advent of online social networking services and korean tv shows the current spread of k pop and korean entertainment known as the korean wave is seen not only in east asia and southeast asia but also in pakistan bangladesh india latin america north africa southern africa and east africa the middle east and throughout the western world gaining a widespread global term k pop became popular since the previously south korean pop music was called gayo while k pop is a general term for popular music in south korea it is often used in a narrower sense for the genre described here. in k pop experienced significant growth and became a power player marking a increase in revenue growth. as of k pop is ranked at number six among the top ten music markets worldwide according to the international federation of the phonographic industrys global music report with bts and blackpink cited as artists leading the market growth.the following is a list of notable individual female k pop artists.for a list of idol bands see list of south korean idol a list of girl group see list of south korean girl a list of individual male artists see list of male k pop artists.k pop which was once a conservative music genre has become sexualized over time. this is in part due to century globalization and the advent of music videos on social media in particular youtube. k pop was adopted by the japanese idol system in the which brought with it the western male gaze and lolita culture which eventually morphed into a global phenomenon over a twenty year time frame. currently k pop idols are manufactured to optimize profit by catering to fan desires. in general male and female idols follow normative feminine and masculine traits respectively as defined by the south korean patriarchal system and in conjunction with a globally desired femininity is often defined by a suppressed doll state conforming to lolita ideals. these ideals consist of a slim figure long legs and a perfect face. korean masculinity requires a soft or cosmopolitan masculinity. that males are expected to be strong and virile but also possess soft features such as a sweet personality and a cute face. the manifestation of sexualization is represented in every part of the idol republic but is most commonly found among modern music videos which have become increasingly sexualized over the last decade. female idols are often objectified more than male idols something complementary to the patriarchal korean culture.list of k pop songs on the billboard charts is a compilation of weekly chart information for k pop music published by the billboard charts and reported on by billboard k town an online billboard column. this is a list of k pop songs and singles on the billboard charts.simply k pop 케이팝 is a korean language show on arirang tv featuring k pop stars who perform on stage and interact with the audience throughout the show. the show was originally called the m wave and was changed to wave k in in the shows name was once again retitled to simply k pop and is hosted by eli kim of u the boyzs kevin and jacob are the hosts of the show. the show is broadcast worldwide on arirang tv every friday at kst and available on viki with subtitles in multiple languages and on dramafever. reruns of the show currently airs on philippine free digital tv channel hallypop philippine tv channel every sundays pm.the following is a non exhaustive list of k pop videos that have been banned by one or more south korean television networks for reasons such as suggestive or offensive lyrics and pop is a genre of modern pop music that originates from south korea. it is characterized by a wide variety of audiovisual elements and k pop singles will typically include a music video and a dance routine. there is a history of media censorship and conservatism in south korea and as a result many risque or explicit k pop songs or videos have been banned by south korean broadcasting stations. other reasons for banning include having japanese lyrics negatively influencing youth or use of brand mbc and sbs are the three largest broadcasting and television networks and they account for the vast majority of banned k pop videos. as of september these networks had banned over k pop songs in the past three years alone. this list only includes titular k pop songs that have an accompanying music video but many k pop songs that were not title tracks have been banned as well.survival audition k pop star korean 오디션 스타 is a south korean reality tv competition series where three entertainmenttalent agencies in south korea hold worldwide auditions to find the next potential k pop stars. preliminary auditions are held around the world in asia north america south america europe and australia. the final winner debuts with the company of his or her choice along with a cash prize of three hundred million won approx. u.s. dollars two brand new vehicles opportunities to become commercial models and casting in dramas and many more benefits.the original three judges for the series were yang hyun suk founder of yg entertainment and former member of the popular south korean act seo taiji amp boys park jin young singersongwriter and founder of jyp entertainment and korean pop icon boa from sm entertainment. sm yg and jyp are the three largest management companies in korea. boa was replaced by singer songwriter you hee yeol of antenna music for season with the changes in judges for the third season the three judges no longer represent the big management pop star is a part of sbss good sunday lineup along with running man. the shows first season aired on december 2011 every sunday evening at pm until april 2012. the second season aired from november 2012 to april 2013 at pm. singer yoon do hyun and entertainer boom hosted the live competition for season and yoon do hyun narrated through the entire process in season and the third season aired from november 2013 to april 2014 every sunday evening at pm kst. jun hyun moo and yoo hye young became the new hosts of season replacing yoon do hyun and boom. the fourth season aired from november 2014 to april 2015 every sunday evening at pm kst with girls days yura as live host replacing yoo hye young. the fifth season began airing on november 2015.
the sixth season was announced to be the final season of k pop star titled k pop star the last chance. changes to the format have been made to the final season to encourage anyone to participate in the last chance to become a k pop star. the final season aired in novemberthe following is a list of notable individual male k pop artists.for a list of idol bands see list of south korean idol a list of girl group see list of south korean girl a list of individual female artists see list of female k pop artists.k pop girl groups refer to south koreas all female idol groups who account for a large portion of the k pop industry. korean girl groups have aided in the global spread and promotion of korean culture through their demonstrated prominence and popularity. generally they are known for their interesting concepts catchy lyrics point choreography and fresh visuals. first generation groups from the late and early such as s.e.s. fin.k.l and baby vox are cited as building these foundations as the first successful all female girl groups in korea and through their participation in the first hallyu wave. in and onward second generation groups such as girls generation kara t ara wonder girls 4minute fx group sistar miss a girls day and apink revived the popularity and consumption of girls domestically in korea as well as globally through the second phase of hallyu. groups that began the generation transitional shift in the early such as aoa and exid helped propel that for the third generation with groups that debuted in onward such as blackpink twice red velvet gfriend mamamoo momoland and i.o.i that have risen to distinction in recent years and helped contribute to the widespread attention and appreciation of k pop. although the groups have been allocated into their respective generations based on the year that they debuted this method of organisation is arbitrary and does not reflect the individual groups period of popularity activity and perceived cultural impact.