logic from greek logikḗ possessed of reason intellectual dialectical argumentative is the systematic study of valid rules of inference i.e. the relations that lead to the acceptance of one proposition the conclusion on the basis of a set of other propositions premises. more broadly logic is the analysis and appraisal of arguments.there is no universal agreement as to the exact definition and boundaries of logic hence the issue still remains one of the main subjects of research and debates in the field of philosophy of logic see conceptions. however it has traditionally included the classification of arguments the systematic exposition of the logical forms the validity and soundness of deductive reasoning the strength of inductive reasoning the study of formal proofs and inference including paradoxes and fallacies and the study of syntax and good argument not only possesses validity and soundness or strength in induction but it also avoids circular dependencies is clearly stated relevant and consistent otherwise it is useless for reasoning and persuasion and is classified as a fallacy.in ordinary discourse inferences may be signified by words such as therefore thus hence ergo and so logic has been studied in philosophy since ancient times and mathematics since the mid century. more recently logic has been studied in cognitive science which draws on computer science linguistics philosophy and psychology among other disciplines. a logician is any person often a philosopher or mathematician whose topic of scholarly study is logic.epistemic modal logic is a subfield of modal logic that is concerned with reasoning about knowledge. while epistemology has a long philosophical tradition dating back to ancient greece epistemic logic is a much more recent development with applications in many fields including philosophy theoretical computer science artificial intelligence economics and linguistics. while philosophers since aristotle have discussed modal logic and medieval philosophers such as avicenna ockham and duns scotus developed many of their observations it was c. i. lewis who created the first symbolic and systematic approach to the topic in it continued to mature as a field reaching its modern form in with the work of kripke.in logic a normal modal logic is a set l of modal formulas such that l contains all propositional instances of the kripke schema a b ◻ a ◻ b \box b\to a\to b and it is closed under detachment rule modus ponens a b a b a\to b necessitation rule a \vdash a implies ◻ a \vdash a .the smallest logic satisfying the above conditions is called k. most modal logics commonly used nowadays in terms of having philosophical motivations e.g. c. i. lewiss and are extensions of k. however a number of deontic and epistemic logics for example are non normal often because they give up the kripke normal modal logic is regular and hence classical.kripke semantics also known as relational semantics or frame semantics and often confused with possible world semantics is a formal semantics for non classical logic systems created in the late and early by saul kripke and joyal. it was first conceived for modal logics and later adapted to intuitionistic logic and other non classical systems. the development of kripke semantics was a breakthrough in the theory of non classical logics because the model theory of such logics was almost non existent before kripke algebraic semantics existed but were considered syntax in disguise.in linguistics and philosophy modality is the phenomenon whereby language is used to discuss possible situations. for instance a modal expression may convey that something is likely desirable or permissible. quintessential modal expressions include modal auxiliaries such as english should modal adverbs such as probably and modal adjectives such as conceivable. however modal components have been identified in the meanings of countless natural language expressions including counterfactuals propositional attitudes evidentials habituals and has been intensely studied from a variety of perspectives. within linguistics typological studies have traced crosslinguistic variation in the strategies used to mark modality with a particular focus on its interaction with marking. theoretical linguists have sought to analyze both the propositional content and discourse effects of modal expressions using formal tools derived from modal logic. within philosophy linguistic modality is often seen as a window into broader metaphysical notions of necessity and possibility.modal logic is a collection of formal systems originally developed and still widely used to represent statements about necessity and possibility. for instance the modal formula p ◊ p \box \diamond p can be read as if p is necessary then it is also possible. this formula is widely regarded as valid when necessity and possibility are understood with respect to knowledge as in epistemic modal first modal axiomatic systems were developed by c. i. lewis in building on an informal tradition stretching back to aristotle. the relational semantics for modal logic was developed by arthur prior jaakko hintikka and saul kripke in the mid twentieth century. in this semantics formulas are assigned truth values relative to a possible world. a formulas truth value at one possible world can depend on the truth values of other formulas at other accessible possible worlds. in particular possibility amounts to truth at some accessible possible world while necessity amounts to truth at every accessible possible world. modal logic is often referred to as the logic of necessity and possibility and such applications continue to play a major role in philosophy of language epistemology metaphysics and formal semantics. however the mathematical apparatus of modal logic has proved useful in numerous other fields including game theory moral and legal theory web design multiverse based set theory and social epistemology. one prominent textbook on the model theory of modal logic suggests that it can be seen more generally as the study of formal systems which take a local perspective on relational structures.modal may refer to modal textile a textile made from spun cellulose analysis the study of the dynamic properties of structures under vibrational bandwidth in the discipline of telecommunications refers to the signalling rate per distance haplotype an ancestral haplotype derived from the dna test results of a specific group of jazz jazz that uses musical modes rather than chord progressions as a harmonic logic a type of formal logic that extends the standards of formal logic to include the elements of matrix used in the diagonalization process involving eigenvalues and phenomena
modal administration used in federal agencies to describe sub offices or transportation used in transit to describe multiple modes of transit available such as bus trolley train score used in testing and education for the most common verb a type of auxiliary verb that is used to indicate window a child window that requires users to interact with it before they can return to operating the parent trade name for sulpiride an atypical antipsychotic commerce an american based company that sells online software to car dealershipsin logic a set of symbols is commonly used to express logical representation. the following table lists many common symbols together with their name pronunciation and the related field of mathematics. additionally the third column contains an informal definition the fourth column gives a short example the fifth and sixth give the unicode location and name for use in html documents. the last column provides the latex symbol.dynamic logic is an extension of modal logic originally intended for reasoning about computer programs and later applied to more general complex behaviors arising in linguistics philosophy ai and other fields.in logic and philosophy is one of five systems of modal logic proposed by clarence irving lewis and cooper harold langford in their book symbolic logic. it is a normal modal logic and one of the oldest systems of modal logic of any kind. it is formed with propositional calculus formulas and tautologies and inference apparatus with substitution and modus ponens but extending the syntax with the modal operator necessarily \displaystyle and its dual possibly \displaystyle .