a doctor of philosophy phd ph.d. or dphil latin philosophiae doctor or doctor philosophiae is the most common degree at the highest academic level awarded following a course of study. phds are awarded for programs across the whole breadth of academic fields. because it is an earned research degree those studying for a phd are usually required to produce original research that expands the boundaries of knowledge normally in the form of a thesis or dissertation and defend their work against experts in the field. the completion of a phd is often a requirement for employment as a university professor researcher or scientist in many fields. individuals who have earned a doctor of philosophy degree may in many jurisdictions use the title doctor often abbreviated dr or dr. with their name although the proper etiquette associated with this usage may also be subject to the professional ethics of their own scholarly field culture or society. those who teach at universities or work in academic educational or research fields are usually addressed by this title professionally and socially in a salutation or conversation. alternatively holders may use post nominal letters such as ph.d. phd or dphil depending on the awarding institution. it is however considered incorrect to use both the title and post nominals at the same time.the specific requirements to earn a phd degree vary considerably according to the country institution and time period from entry level research degrees to higher doctorates. during the studies that lead to the degree the student is called a doctoral student or phd student a student who has completed all their coursework and comprehensive examinations and is working on their thesisdissertation is sometimes known as a doctoral candidate or phd candidate see all but dissertation. a student attaining this level may be granted a candidate of philosophy degree at some institutions or may be granted a masters degree en route to the doctoral degree. sometimes this status is also colloquially known as phd abd meaning all but dissertation.a phd candidate must submit a project thesis or dissertation often consisting of a body of original academic research which is in principle worthy of publication in a peer reviewed journal. in many countries a candidate must defend this work before a panel of expert examiners appointed by the university. universities sometimes award other types of doctorate besides the phd such as the doctor of musical arts d.m.a. for music performers and the doctor of education ed.d. for professional educators. in the european universities association defined the salzburg principles basic principles for third cycle degrees doctorates within the bologna process. these were followed in by the florence principles seven basic principles for doctorates in the arts laid out by the european league of institutes of the arts which have been endorsed by the european association of conservatoires the international association of film and television schools the international association of universities and colleges of art design and media and the society for artistic research.in some countries like china and japan a recipient of doctorate in disciplines such as engineering and pharmacy where professional degrees for example engd and pharmd are usually awarded in the western countries is called a phd regardless. it is not uncommon that the persons title or diploma be translated into english as phd in that discipline. in these countries the distinction between professional doctorates and phds is less significant.in the context of the doctor of philosophy and other similarly titled degrees the term philosophy does not refer to the field or academic discipline of philosophy but is used in a broader sense in accordance with its original greek meaning which is love of wisdom. in most of europe all fields history philosophy social sciences mathematics and natural philosophysciences other than theology law and medicine the so called professional vocational or technical curriculum were traditionally known as philosophy and in germany and elsewhere in europe the basic faculty of liberal arts was known as the faculty of philosophy.philosophy from greek philosophia love of wisdom is the study of general and fundamental questions such as those about reason existence knowledge values mind and language. such questions are often posed as problems to be studied or resolved. the term was probably coined by pythagoras c. – c. bce. philosophical methods include questioning critical discussion rational argument and systematic presentation.historically philosophy encompassed all bodies of knowledge and a practitioner was known as a philosopher. from the time of ancient greek philosopher aristotle to the century natural philosophy encompassed astronomy medicine and physics. for example newtons mathematical principles of natural philosophy later became classified as a book of the century the growth of modern research universities led academic philosophy and other disciplines to professionalize and specialize. since then various areas of investigation that were traditionally part of philosophy have become separate academic disciplines such as psychology sociology linguistics and major subfields of academic philosophy include metaphysics which is concerned with the fundamental nature of existence and reality epistemology which studies the nature of knowledge and belief ethics which is concerned with moral value and logic which studies the rules of inference that allow one to derive conclusions from true premises. other notable subfields include philosophy of science political philosophy aesthetics philosophy of language and philosophy of mind.philosophical cosmology philosophy of cosmology or philosophy of cosmos is a discipline directed to the philosophical contemplation of the universe as a totality and to its conceptual foundations. it draws on several branches of philosophy metaphysics epistemology philosophy of physics philosophy of science philosophy of mathematics and on the fundamental theories of physics. the term cosmology was used at least as early as by german philosopher christian wolff in cosmologia generalis.political philosophy is the philosophical study of government addressing questions about the nature scope and legitimacy of public agents and institutions and the relationships between them. its topics include politics liberty justice property rights law and the enforcement of laws by authority what they are if they are needed what makes a government legitimate what rights and freedoms it should protect what form it should take what the law is and what duties citizens owe to a legitimate government if any and when it may be legitimately overthrown if science is generally used in the singular but in french and spanish the plural sciences politiques and ciencias respectively is used perhaps a reflection of the disciplines eclectic nature.political theory also engages questions of a broader scope tackling the political nature of phenomena and categories such as identity culture sexuality race wealth human nonhuman relations ecology religion and philosophy is a branch of philosophy but it has also been a major part of political science within which a strong focus has historically been placed on both the history of political thought and contemporary political theory from normative political theory to various critical the oxford handbook of political theory the field is described as an interdisciplinary endeavor whose center of gravity lies at the humanities end of the happily still undisciplined discipline of political science ... for a long time the challenge for the identity of political theory has been how to position itself productively in three sorts of location in relation to the academic disciplines of political science history and philosophy between the world of politics and the more abstract ruminative register of theory between canonical political theory and the newer resources such as feminist and critical theory discourse analysis film and film theory popular and political culture mass media studies neuroscience environmental studies behavioral science and economics on which political theorists increasingly draw.the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to is the study of general and fundamental problems concerning matters such as existence knowledge values reason mind and language. it is distinguished from other ways of addressing fundamental questions such as mysticism myth or religion by its critical generally systematic approach and its reliance on rational argument. it involves logical analysis of language and clarification of the meaning of words and word philosophy comes from the greek philosophia which literally means love of wisdom.philosophy of science is a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations methods and implications of science. the central questions of this study concern what qualifies as science the reliability of scientific theories and the ultimate purpose of science. this discipline overlaps with metaphysics ontology and epistemology for example when it explores the relationship between science and truth. philosophy of science focuses on metaphysical epistemic and semantic aspects of science. ethical issues such as bioethics and scientific misconduct are often considered ethics or science studies rather than philosophy of is no consensus among philosophers about many of the central problems concerned with the philosophy of science including whether science can reveal the truth about unobservable things and whether scientific reasoning can be justified at all. in addition to these general questions about science as a whole philosophers of science consider problems that apply to particular sciences such as biology or physics. some philosophers of science also use contemporary results in science to reach conclusions about philosophy philosophical thought pertaining to science dates back at least to the time of aristotle general philosophy of science emerged as a distinct discipline only in the century in the wake of the logical positivist movement which aimed to formulate criteria for ensuring all philosophical statements meaningfulness and objectively assessing them. charles sanders peirce and karl popper moved on from positivism to establish a modern set of standards for scientific methodology. thomas kuhns book the structure of scientific revolutions was also formative challenging the view of scientific progress as steady cumulative acquisition of knowledge based on a fixed method of systematic experimentation and instead arguing that any progress is relative to a paradigm the set of questions concepts and practices that define a scientific discipline in a particular historical period.subsequently the coherentist approach to science in which a theory is validated if it makes sense of observations as part of a coherent whole became prominent due to w.v. quine and others. some thinkers such as stephen jay gould seek to ground science in axiomatic assumptions such as the uniformity of nature. a vocal minority of philosophers and paul feyerabend in particular argue that there is no such thing as the scientific method so all approaches to science should be allowed including explicitly supernatural ones. another approach to thinking about science involves studying how knowledge is created from a sociological perspective an approach represented by scholars like david bloor and barry barnes. finally a tradition in continental philosophy approaches science from the perspective of a rigorous analysis of human of the particular sciences range from questions about the nature of time raised by einsteins general relativity to the implications of economics for public policy. a central theme is whether the terms of one scientific theory can be intra or intertheoretically reduced to the terms of another. that is can chemistry be reduced to physics or can sociology be reduced to individual the general questions of philosophy of science also arise with greater specificity in some particular sciences. for instance the question of the validity of scientific reasoning is seen in a different guise in the foundations of statistics. the question of what counts as science and what should be excluded arises as a life or death matter in the philosophy of medicine. additionally the philosophies of biology of psychology and of the social sciences explore whether the scientific studies of human nature can achieve objectivity or are inevitably shaped by values and by social relations.hindu philosophy encompasses the philosophies world views and teachings that emerged in ancient india. these include six systems shad – sankhya yoga nyaya vaisheshika mimamsa and vedanta.in indian tradition the word used for philosophy is darshana. this word comes from the sanskrit root drish to see to experience.these are also called the astika theistic philosophical traditions and are those that accept the vedas as an authoritative important source of knowledge. ancient and medieval india was also the source of philosophies that share philosophical concepts but rejected the vedas and these have been called heterodox or non orthodox indian philosophies. indian philosophies include buddhism jainism ājīvika and others.western scholars have debated the relationship and differences within philosophies and with philosophies starting with the writings of indologists and orientalists of the and centuries which were themselves derived from limited availability of indian literature and medieval doxographies. the various sibling traditions included in hindu philosophies are diverse and they are united by shared history and concepts same textual resources similar ontological and soteriological focus and cosmology. while buddhism and jainism are considered distinct philosophies and religions some heterodox traditions such as are often considered as distinct schools within hindu philosophy.hindu philosophy also includes several sub schools of theistic philosophies that integrate ideas from two or more of the six orthodox philosophies such as the realism of the the naturalism of the the dualism of the the non dualism and knowledge of self as essential to liberation of advaita the self discipline of yoga and the asceticism and elements of theistic ideas. examples of such schools include śaiva siddhānta raseśvara and some sub schools share tantric ideas with those found in some buddhist traditions. the ideas of these sub schools are found in the puranas and school of hindu philosophy has extensive epistemological literature called as well as theories on metaphysics axiology and other topics.will generally is the faculty of the mind that selects at the moment of decision a desire among the various desires present it itself does not refer to any particular desire but rather to the mechanism responsible for choosing from among ones desires. within philosophy will is important as one of the parts of the mind along with reason and understanding. it is considered central to the field of ethics because of its role in enabling deliberate of the recurring questions discussed in the western philosophical tradition is that of free will and the related but more general notion of fate which asks how the will can be truly free if a persons actions have either natural or divine causes which determine them. in turn this is directly connected to discussions on the nature of freedom itself and to the problem of evil.analytic philosophy is a branch and tradition of philosophy using analysis which is popular in the western world and particularly the anglosphere which began around the turn of the century in the contemporary era and continues today. in the united kingdom united states canada australia new zealand and scandinavia the majority of university philosophy departments today identify themselves as analytic departments.central figures in this historical development of analytic philosophy are gottlob frege bertrand russell g. e. moore and ludwig wittgenstein. other important figures in its history include the logical positivists particularly rudolf carnap w. v. o. quine saul kripke and karl philosophy is characterized by an emphasis on language known as the linguistic turn and for its clarity and rigor in arguments making use of formal logic and mathematics and to a lesser degree the natural sciences. it also takes things piecemeal an attempt to focus philosophical reflection on smaller problems that lead to answers to bigger questions.analytic philosophy is often understood in contrast to other philosophical traditions most notably continental philosophies such as existentialism phenomenology and hegelianism.indian philosophy refers to philosophical traditions which developed in the indian subcontinent. modern scholars generally divide the field between hindu philosophy also known as vedic philosophy and non hindu traditions such as buddhist philosophy and jain philosophy. this division is generally derived from traditional indian are numerous different indian schools of thought all of which debated and influenced each other throughout indian history. most indian philosophical discourse took place in sanskrit but also extends to other languages such as various prakrits and other asian languages mainly for buddhist philosophical texts include extensive discussions on ontology metaphysics brahman atman sunyata anatta reliable means of knowledge epistemology pramana ethics which is often influenced by the indian idea of karma value system axiology and other topics.the main schools of indian philosophy were formalized chiefly between bce to the early centuries of the common era. competition and integration between the various schools were intense during their formative years especially between bce and ce. today the hindu philosophical schools are most influential in india while the buddhist tradition remains influential in the himalayan regions east asia and southeast asia.